This is Jockel Podcast number 109 with echo Charles and me, Jockel Willick. Good evening, echo. Good evening.
1 September 1942, the Army in the field.
Comrade fighters, commanders, and political workers, heroic defenders of Stalin-Grod.
The bitter fighting for the city of Stalin-Grod has been raging for months. The Germans have lost hundreds of tanks and planes.
Hitler's brutalized hordes are advancing towards Stalin-Grod and the Volga over mountains of dead bodies of their own men and officers.
Our Bolshevik party, our nation, our great country, have given us the task not to let the enemy reach the Volga to defend the city of Stalin-Grod.
The defensive Stalin-Grod is of decisive importance for the whole Soviet front.
Without sparing our strength and with scorn for death, we shall defy the Germans the way to the Volga and not give up Stalin-Grod.
Each one of us must bear in mind that the capture of Stalin-Grod by the Germans and their advance to the Volga will give our enemies new strength and weaken our own forces.
Not one step back.
The war council expects unlimited courage, tenacity, and heroism in the fight with the on-rushing enemy from all the fighters, commanders, and political workers from all the defenders of Stalin-Grod.
The enemy must and will be smashed on the approaches to Stalin-Grod.
Forward against the enemy, up into the unremitting battle comrades for Stalin-Grod for our great country, death to the German invader.
So that is a clearly a note from the general on the ground.
The member of the war council of the Stalin-Grod and southwest front lieutenant general, Khrushchev, sent to the troops, obviously, that were preparing to defend Stalin-Grod.
Now, there was another commander in the field by the name of Paulus, and he sent a note to Hitler on 23 November 1942, my fear.
Since receipt of your radio message of evening 22-1-1 events have come thick and fast, we have not succeeded in closing the pocket to the southwest and west, impending enemy penetrations begin to emerge there.
Ammunition in fuel are coming to an end.
Numerous batteries and tanks have shot themselves dry. A timely and adequate supply is impossible. The army will shortly be destroyed unless a concentration of forces succeeds in totally defeating the enemy attacking from the south and west.
For this, we must immediately withdraw all forces from Stalin-Grod and strong detachments from the northern front. Un avoidable sequel must then be a breakout towards the southwest since eastern and northern front can no longer be held with such weak forces.
In this case, we will lose much material, but the majority of the valuable combatants and at least a part of the material will be preserved.
I retain full responsibility for this message, even if I add that commanding general's heights, strecker, cube, jackmill, von sidelets all share this evaluation of the situation.
Based on the situation, I again request freedom of action.
I will highlight my fear, signed Paulus. The Russians were effective in surrounding the Germans. The Germans, 6th Army, is a matter of fact, 250 to 300,000 men fully surrounded by the Russians.
Here's what Hitler wrote back. 6 Army has been temporarily encircled by Russian forces. I intend to concentrate the army in the area, Stalin-Grod north,
Kutduban Hill 137 Hill 135, Mere Novka, Zabenko, Solid-Grad South. The army may rest assured that I will do everything to bring supplies to it accordingly and relieve it in time.
I know the brave 6 Army and its commander in chief, and I am sure it will do its duty. Signed 8-Auf Hitler.
So, and we'll get into this Hitler over and over again, is asked if the troops on the ground can try to escape from Stalin-Grad and over and over again, he says, no, you cannot leave, you will fight to the last bullet.
And on the 30th January 1943, Herman Goring, who is the Nazi Reichs Marshall of the entire German Reichs, so he's this senior military man of the entire German army from 1940 until the end of the war.
And even though Stalin-Grad had not fallen yet, he gave this speech about their sacrifice of these German soldiers.
And he gave it, you know, it was obviously heard on the radio, etc. And it spread, and actually the soldiers on the ground in Stalin-Grad.
The German soldiers heard this speech. And again, we'll get more to what the reactions were, but I'm going to read that part of that speech right now.
It made one shutter, but Stalin had enormous masses at his disposal, and used old men, women and children, and did not bother about supplies or sufficient food or transport. The Russians used the whip or the bullet.
The Germans alone could resist and could wrestle with such an adversary, everything depended on them.
With the greatest respect to other nations, the Germans are the only ones in Europe in a position to break Russia and destroy Bolshevism.
Of all the terrific battles, the battle for Stalin-Grad stood out like a gigantic monument, which would one day be regarded as the greatest and most heroic battle in German history.
So he's referring to this in the past tense once again. This hasn't been, this hadn't finished yet, but he's referring to it like it's in the past tense, because for all practical purposes, it was.
Back to the document, every German soldier would come to pronounce the word, Stalin-Grad, with holy awe and remember that it was there that Germany set the seal of final victory,
because people that fought like that must win. Germany has now become the guarantor of European freedom, culture and life, but for the fighters of Stalin-Grad, the Russians might have obtained their objective. Now they are too late.
The defenders of Stalin-Grad had obeyed the law, which everyone must obey the law to die for Germany. This law was not only binding on soldiers, but on the whole German nation.
The nation must not question whether it's stand at Stalin-Grad has been necessary or not. The law had ordered them to do so. So here it's in, don't question,
don't question this sacrifice of 250,000 men, don't question it. It was of no concern to the German soldier whether he died at Stalin-Grad in the African desert or Norway.
He always sacrificed himself, so that his nation might live.
In hours, when some people perhaps tried to install morbid and slie thoughts into your brains, then we must always look at the fear, their shining and greatest example.
They could believe that the Almighty had led this man a godsent man to pass through innumerable dangers and become greater and greater, all for nothing.
That provenance had given them this man who had made them into the strongest nation in the world.
These are guarantees that justify our belief in victory. So we're talking about Hitler here, by the way, as a godsent man.
The difficult times are really less tested and people prove their worth in hard trials. I, the commander in chief of the Lufroffta, suffered exceptionally when I heard of the results of the bombings.
And although I did my best to prevent it from happening, it must be recognized as unavoidable and must not influence our will for resistance.
And I know a tremendous heroic song from a match without equal that was called the Battle of the Neblones.
They too stood in a hall of fire and fire, quenching their thirst with their own blood, but fought and fought to the last.
Such a fight is raging there today, because a people who can fight like that must win.
And before these men, a millennia, previous, their stood in a small, gorgeous, Greece and infinitely brave and daring man with his 300.
Leonites stood with 300 Spartans from a tribe known for its bravery and boldness. And an overwhelmingly numerical superior enemy attacked and attacked again and again, even then it was a rush from the Asian east against the Nordic people.
Huge numbers of men were available to Zerxes, but the 300 men did not waver or falter fighting a losing battle, hopeless but not meaningless.
And then the last man fell. And in this bottleneck, there is a sentence.
Wanderer, if you come to Sparta report that you had seen us lying here as the law commanded.
They were 300 men, my comrades, and millennia have passed, but today that battle that sacrifice still counts as the greatest example of heroic soldiering.
And today this fight is there. The sacrifice is there in Stalingrad. And one day it will be said if you go to Germany.
Tell them you have seen us lying in Stalingrad as the law commanded us to protect the security of our people.
And as I said, those were the words of Herman Goring, who is the senior officer of the German military at that time.
And those words were his words. And of course, his words were lies.
And all of them were lies, and no one knew that better than the men on the ground in and around the Russian city of Stalingrad.
Nearly 1500 miles away from Berlin, freezing, starving, surrounded, low on ammunition, lacking medical supplies, and lacking cold weather gear, and lacking any kind of real leadership.
And also served in a nation that lacked the moral high ground.
As a matter of fact, their nation's leaders lacked any kind of morality at all, and this is clear in the aggression that they unleashed in the world and the atrocities that they committed mass murder of millions of people.
And it's clear that they had no morality whatsoever based on how they treated their own soldiers.
Who, like many soldiers, were men that were fighting not for political powers or for political ideals created in an ivory tower thousands of miles away from them.
But for the ideals of a soldier himself, duty and courage and honor, that's what soldiers fight for, and the ultimate thing that they fight for.
As we have heard time and time again is for their brothers on the line with them to their left and to their right.
And one of those men was named Johakeem Weater.
He was an intelligence officer in the eighth core of the German six army.
And he wrote about his experiences in a book called Stalin Grad, Memories of Hell, where he recalls what he and other German soldiers went through physically mentally and spiritually.
As they were abandoned by their leaders, as they were abandoned by life, and as they were abandoned by hope itself.
Let's go to the book.
Again, this is Johakeem Weater.
And the book is called Stalin Grad Memories of Hell.
After meticulous preparations of gigantic proportions, the Russians with their overwhelming, superior armor and cavalry forces attacking, like lightning from the north and the following day from the east.
And the press to our entire sixth army into an iron vice.
Within three days, the encircling ring was closed at Colach on the Dan and on the Don and constantly reinforced.
And we stared at our situation maps on which menacing thick red lines of encirclement and arrows showed the enemy attacks, penetrations and directions of advance. We had never imagined a catastrophe of such proportions to be possible.
The mighty wedges of the Russian armored columns could not be stopped and a myriad of highly mobile cavalry troops increased the model and confusion in the rear of the bloody rent front of the army.
Obviously, I skipped a little bit moving into this point, but at this point they're completely surrounded, like I said, cut off and the Russians are applying the pressure.
The enemy appeared to be systematically invading our blows and to be withdrawing into the depths of Russia.
So this is going, he's kind of reflecting back on how they ended up there and he says that he says the enemy appeared to be systematically invading our blows and to be withdrawing into the depths of Russia.
This is what the Russians do. That's what they didn't Napoleon in 1812 and they're doing it again here.
And he back to the book, taking as a whole, this was a master piece of general staff thinking, today I'm convinced that those withdrawals of what Russian forces during the summer of 1942 were an outstanding enactment of traditional war Russian war tactics.
So Hitler got lowered in and they didn't pay attention. They didn't reflect on history. And as we all, as most people know, this was also Hitler opening another front and trying to fight on multiple fronts at the same time, which goes against a certain law of combat called prioritizing execute.
And then he said, you know, you're going to have to focus your forces on your most important thing and then move on Hitler gets a F on prioritizing execute.
Back to the book, it had now come to pass.
We were actually caught in a trap. How will we to get out?
This situation in the pocket, he refers to this area as the pocket. This is the pocket of Russian soldiers.
So that's by the way, that's how you end up in these situations. And the Germans absolutely believe their own propaganda that they were the best soldiers and that they were the master race and that these bullshifix couldn't fight them.
When you believe that, you think you can march right into the Stonegrunt. And take it. The wind is not going to bother you. Admittedly, an eerie memory arose within me and intensified my apprehensive unrest with each passing day.
It was the memory of several fanatical statements that Hitler had recently made in public speeches. The German soldier he said, now stood on the Volka and no power on earth could make him leave the Supreme War Lord, that's a reference to Hitler.
He's got an encodes. The Supreme War Lord had emphatically committed himself, he had prophesized and demanded that Stalin grunt be relentlessly attacked and taken.
Presumptuous terms, he had even sworn before God and history never again to relinquish on this conquest, presenting it as already achieved with such an attitude as this on the part of the Supreme War Lord was giving up the Volga and retreating conceivable at all.
So Hitler had painted himself into a corner with a paintbrush of arrogance and an ended up in this situation where he's saying no more never going to leave.
And he does not.
Back to the book, the fate of more than a quarter million human beings were decided over such a distance so that the fear of headquarters is 2000 miles, 2000 kilometers, it's like 1500 miles distant away.
And they're making decisions. This is called micro management. By the way, this is called micro management. This is not decentralized command.
This is the fourth law of combat from the book called Extreme Ownership. Hitler gets an F on decentralized command. He's micro managing his troops that are 1500 miles away.
The fate of more than a quarter million human beings was decided over such a distance from there hit the repeatedly addressed orders and appeals directly to Stalin to the Stalin-Grad army, which had been removed from under the command of army group, and reassigned to the newly formed army group, Don, and then Don, D.O. and is a river.
Now, everybody knew that they needed to perform a military maneuver referred to as a breakout, which means you picture your inner circle, you're surrounded by troops. You pick one part of that circle of the people that are surrounded you and you attack and you break through.
It sounds like what it is. It's a breakout. Everybody knew that they needed a breakout. They're like, hey, we're surrounded. We need fuel. We need water. We need food. We don't have any of that. We need to break out.
And so, everyone was kind of prepared to do that. Back to the book. Our army still deposed about 130 combat ready tanks and about the same number of armored scout cars and other armored vehicles.
In other words, we still had a powerful motorized units available. Everywhere people were waiting for the relieving signal for the breakout.
With fluttering hearts, we followed the preparations that were taking place mainly in the western sector of the army. In anticipation of the expected operation, the order had been given to destroy all superfluous material.
Everywhere damaged guns, tanks, and trucks useless communication and engineering equipment, huge amounts of clothing, files, and paper even food were being consigned to flames. So they all think that they're going to break out.
They're assuming, look, we're going to break out. This is the only solution right now. Where surrounded, we need to attack one area and get out of here. So they start going, okay, before we leave, we're going to burn this fuel, we're going to burn this food. We're not going to leave anything for the Russians.
Back to the book, according to the decision by army command that retreat from Stalingrad was to begin on 26 November.
We did not entertain the slightest doubt that this supreme command must be convinced of its necessity. We counted firmly on its being carried out.
I will never forget how stunned we all were. The agitation, yes, the petrifying horror that befell us, especially among the higher ranks of our staff, went on 24 November.
The message came in from army that Hitler had forbidden the planned breakout and finally ordered the Stalingrad army to temporarily take up a position of all around defense.
So it was says no, you're not leaving. Oh, you're surrounded. By the way, they're surrounded by a force of about a million Russian soldiers, but but it's more than that because they're surrounded by the country of Russia.
Back to the book, the fatal radio message from the distant fear headquarters had come like a stroke of lightning.
For bidding the plan with draw of our northern front, the detachment of our forces from Stalingrad and thereby the hope for the breakout.
This decision by the supreme command was just as heavy a blow for the staff at the army as it was for us.
We were unable to satisfy ourselves as to why all the reports, adminsions and requests for our responsible of our responsible higher staffs who were best able to judge the events and all the dangers they entailed had not been successful.
So this is something that Paton said, the commander on the ground is always right.
Meaning if you're sitting in an ivory tower somewhere, there's a guy on the ground. He's right and you're wrong.
He's on the ground. He knows what's happening. Now, could we come up with some exceptions to this? Absolutely. You have better intelligence of what's happening. You maybe know some.
You maybe have overhead coverage or you get you get air reports or you have in these days you have satellites looking at things. So yeah, there's situations where you might know a little bit more.
But the default thought process should be the guy on the ground is has a better situation awareness than I do. I'm going to go with their call. And here's Hitler saying no.
Now general policy who's the commander of all the all the German soldiers.
General Paul is back to the book. General Paul is addressed himself directly to Hitler with a very serious and responsible evaluation of the situation in this momentous radio message.
He had adamantly stressed that the fact that all his senior commanding generals shared the conviction that because it would be impossible to adequately supply the army in time. It would shortly be destroyed unless a concentration of all available forces were succeeded and
to divide decisively beating the enemy attacking from the west in the south. So not just one general that saying this every but every user there's there's there's 250 300 thousand Germans there's a lot of senior military people all of them
are saying we need to leave Hitler says no. Why does Hitler's just that like no you got you guys don't leave because we're Germans we fight to the death it's arrogance.
It's absolutely partially arrogance that he thinks no will hold out. We're just going to support us. We'll just build this all out and I think he's being stubborn.
He made a call kind of thing and then they're like hey this calls no good we're going to do this. He's going to be the call. He goes I mean we obviously Hitler hasn't probably want to dig his egos of any human being ever and he's in full effect.
Even though he had left no doubt that in his view the decision promising salvation lane and immediate breakout in the end he too this talking about Paulus in the end he too submitted and obeyed
for him in order wasn't order in spite of everything. All that remained to us was to hope for rescue operation from the outside. I will say this actually
There's some books that parts of this book that I'm not going to cover because we just don't have time. There's that guy that gave that speech going to be getting he had also told Hitler.
Hey, no worry we can resupply he was the before taking over all the German military forces he was in charge of the German air force the Luftwaffe.
And he said look we can resupply these guys don't worry about it don't worry and I he probably said that at a time when it didn't look like they're going to get completely surrounded you know yeah we'll resupply don't worry about
And we'll get into some of the numbers on what they said they could do but that's another reason why Hitler Hitler thought oh we can resupply he also had people on the ground he's surrounded by Yesman
So no one wants to disagree with the boss man in this case eight all Hitler by saying so when he says look can't we resupply them yes yes we can resupply him from the air and also he was saying hey can't someone instead of them
Breaking out and going toward back towards Germany why don't we have some German troops go towards them and break into them that way we can open up some supply lines so when he gets told when he when he offered that solution he got told yes we can do it
Yes, we can do it so he surrounded by Yesman and you know how he ended up surrounded by Yesman he's ego
I don't want I don't like to get told oh you're gonna tell me no you're fired yeah get someone in here that's gonna tell me that they can do what I'm saying and then that person's gonna get promoted and then you get surrounded by people that want to get promoted
Check
Proceeding on
And there was one
General that really made it made a significant effort here we go back to the book initially General Von Sidelitz was dumbfounded stunned
He accepted the order but in his heart he rejected it particularly since he was painfully aware that his own were hands were tied
Not until the following day 25 November 1942 did General Von Sidelitz react to Hitler's orders and his reaction was as much filled with a sense of responsibility as it was
Temperamental addressed the army command it took the form of a detailed evaluation of the situation that core commander had had his chief of staff prepare
It's surmised once again all the arguments against the solid army digging in and urged the breaking out of the ring immediately
So what's cool about this book they actually have this actual document this guy wrote if you ever heard me talking to podcast about getting all your ducks in a row and like hey if my boss tells me no cool
I'm gonna I'm gonna get all the information I'm gonna come back and I'm gonna make a bullet proof argument
My boss is going to agree with because you can't my my arguments gonna be ball proof because I'm right and if I wasn't right then I wouldn't
I wouldn't go this far right I'm not gonna I'm not gonna put my my reputation on the line
Arguing something that I don't truly believe is right you know all from us. Okay. Well, you know what he could be right
So you know what I'm gonna try and execute to my best of my ability in this case sidelets is like no
It's not no and and he says okay, I'm gonna perform I'm gonna put together this thing they have the document inside this book
I would read it, but it's long it's it's so detailed that it would take too much time
But it lays out every little detail of why they need to break out and not an emotion
That's what's beautiful about not an emotional way
How maybe I just need to check myself because maybe more emotion was needed but
Generally if you come across as really emotional hit the wood think all you well a boss would think oh
You're just emotional about the ZECO use emotional buddy you just need to calm down
Carry out the orders so he didn't he he played the role or he he used the strategy of just calm
This is what's going on this one needs to change or this is what we need to do and if we don't it's gonna be catastrophic
Back to the book in the emergency situation
Intensified by the okay agent okay. She's
Oberkommando day aator, so which is the supreme high command of the German army
General von sidelitz demanded from the commander and chief of the army that he act immediately against orders and other words against Hitler
So so sidelitz when sidelitz got told no he's like no listen
We need to do it anyways
That's how passionate so now he's starting to get a little bit emotional and passionate
He declared it to be an imperative duty to the army and to the German people to
obey the dictates of conscience and to seize the freedom of action that had been forbidden in order to prevent threatening
catastrophe the memo was passed on by army command
But had no effect whatsoever
And so they had to suffer the additional pain that in the final analysis
They could but give in and fulfill the bitter
Soldiers do duty to obey against their own better insight now I will tell you that as Napoleon said if you execute a plan that you know is wrong
You are culpable for executing it and these guys
They would not stand up against Hitler
Back to the book where you're all deeply disturbed and full of despair and in our hearts even outraged
What was being demanded of us non-ly contradicted all military experience it went against every
Soldierly feeling and robbed of us any hope of any hope of being able to save ourselves by breaking out under our own power
In the last week of November when the formations that had been heavily damaged during the initial retreat were hastily and with
Great difficulty establishing themselves on a new main line of resistance army issued a grave
Order of the day I can still remember the exact wording. It started six army has been surrounded. This is not your fault
As always you have fought bravely and tenetiously up to the moment the enemy had you by the neck
It went on to point out that the hard fighting suffering and deprivations
That would still be demanded of the troops and which they would have to endure for a time in hunger and frost
Trusting in the help from outside that had been so definitely promised so Hitler did say how I'm gonna send help from the outside. Don't worry about it. You stay put
Finally mentioned was made of the relief operation to which Hitler had personally committed himself
Psychologically clever and calculating the appeal ended with the encouraging words promising
Consolation and salvation hold on the fear will get you out
This final sentence appealing so strongly to emotion which injected a new tone into the previously factual and sober language of military orders
gave rise to discussions among our staff
It made me realize on top of all that it already happened how great the sacrifice was going to be that would be demanded of the troops
By the way
These guys traveled there and
Had a really hard time of it
They know how hard it was for them to get there and now they're being told that the people that are gonna
The way that they're gonna get saved is by someone else coming behind them to help them going through the same
hardships that they barely got there so
They're they're
Outlook isn't good. Yeah, it's a jellish yeah, they're doubtful
Back to the book a large number of the soldiers who had been in constant exhaustion
Exhausting action in the front line for two years without leave without having been home to see their loved ones
So a lot of these guys, so they had actually survived a winter early on
They had survived a winter as they pushed into German as they put it to push to Russia and now they're waiting for another one
But these soldiers have been fighting for two straight years hard fighting
Back to the book naturally the troops were not in a position to appreciate the full extent of the suffering and deprivation
They were about to face they knew nothing of the difficult problems of the overall supply situation
So again, this guy is working at the headquarters, meaning he's you know with the commanders and the leadership
So he's tracking all the logistics of the situation the front line soldier doesn't know the front line soldier expects how you they're gonna bring me bullets
They're gonna bring me food
He realizes because he sees what's actually happening that that's gonna be a real problem
They had no inkling of the countless worries that lay so heavily and depressantly on the higher staffs
Nor at first where they aware that that at one stroke the encirclement had made it impossible to complete
Preparations for winter positions out there in the supply depose of the army lay tens of thousands of fur coats
Warm stockings protective head gear and other items of winter clothing which could now no longer reach the encircled forces
For the most part the men remained completely in adequately supplied with winter gear and exposed to the murderous frost
So the thousands and thousands of warm weather gear
Or I should say cold weather gear and now they're gonna get nothing
They're cut off back the book we calculated that our own army whose total strength before the encirclement had been about
330,000 men now numbered about
280,000 so they're already short 50,000 killed
We the staff the officers in the staff departments also pinned our hopes on the relief operation
Which was being prepared no one even considered that Hitler would be ready to abandon the outstandingly proven
Sixth Army on the Vulcan throw it to the wolves so these guys are even I said that even though I said they weren't hopeful
They're also thinking there's no way that Hitler is gonna leave
300,000 soldiers out here. There's no way
Back to the book he was bound to find ways and means to rectify the devilist situation
They're even starry eyed dreamers not however among the older and more experienced who maintain that the fur would not only get us out
But it probably already conceived a plan to turn our apparent defeat into a glorious triumph by encircling all the enemies armies that are surrounding us
None of these dreamers and believers and miracles who kept their who kept servicing here and there until the very end had a clear idea of what was implied
By the fact that German soldiers were simultaneously fighting on the north Cape and the bay of disgue in the front of Leningrad and viewers
on in the caucus in Crete and in North Africa
So again, disguise fighting fronts all over the place and
The and the staff officers the leadership knew how thinly spread the German army was the front line troops in you know
They didn't make sense of that
During the weeks of December the fighting strength the army was deteriorating at a horrendous pace
The blame for this lay mainly in the in the inadequate air lift
Here a catastrophic picture was slowly emerging in order to be able to maintain its ability to live and fight our army had initially
requested
750 tons of supplies per day
Later reducing this to 500 tons per day
the J.U. 52 cargo aircraft had about a two ton load the
Want the HE111 fighter bomber had held about 1.5 tons
So this is gonna require like
2000 aircraft to be able to make this happen
What are they end up with back the book they only brought in 80 to 120 tons of the required supplies in other words
Not more than one fifth of the amount needed
Purely and simply this meant a daily deficit of 10,000 kilograms of bread and a fatal
Under supply of desperately needed fuel and ammunition
So you're gonna one fifth of what they need now
We have to be careful because that's a little statistic that we're thrown out there
Right like oh we're getting one fifth of what we need
But I'll think of a human being in what you need as a human being just food and you cut that down to one fifth of what you need
You know you need 2,500 calories a day you're gonna get 500
That's what we're talking about yeah, you need and by the way you're fighting and you're gonna you're being attacked so you need
1000 bullets a day
Right you need a thousand bullets a day you're getting 120 bullets
It's it's their things are not looking good
But
Back to the book the sunset soon after lunch and by 1,400 to 1,500 hours
It was already dark so this is now we're talking Russian winter by 2 or 3 o'clock in the afternoon. It's dark
And every day this two reminded us to supp depressing the here in the desolation of the snow brump
Snowbound step of the enormous distance that separated us from home
Where we not all the living and the dead long buried in a gigantic mass grave
Faults like this occasionally befell me when I return from various sectors of the front
Where in my role as liaison officer I had been sent on specific assignments to gather urgently needed information
There on the heights above the the infamous Rochaka Valley
The men of our divisions lay in desperate battle demanding bloody sacrifice there in the trenches and foxholes and the snow the soldiers were dying of exhaustion and cold
Because they're steadily shrinking rations of bread and other food issued
Food issued were no longer sufficient to provide the physical stamina needed to combat frost and sickness
So they're starving to death. They're starving death in the freezing death and they're they're being attacked and killed by the Russians with no ammo with no ammo
One day in the second week of December
The staff's first heard the news that the army group Don under field marshal van mainstein von Mainstein had begun the long hope
Relief for the long hope for relief operation
Soon the good news that also reached the troops the words gave new impetus everywhere
Particularly on the hard pressed western perimeter of the pocket spread like lightning mains that manstein is coming
The already dying hopes burst further new new courage
Happy expectations a new spirit of initiative began to blossom the sufferings and sacrifices to date had not been in vain after all
Salvation was now back ining what the fear had promised he was bound to deliver
So they get word bandstimes coming
This is this this is good if everything went well they thought the hour of all relief could just coincide with Christmas
The motorized groups and strong tank units being led by Colonel General Hoff
Elements of which had been brought in from France and great haste had begun their relief offensive
Hoff spearhead tanks were only 50 kilometers away
Hold on we're coming
Said one of the encouraging radio messages which spread like wire fire amongst the western edge of the pocket so they're in radio communication 50 kilometers and
And this well respected
Leader Hoff he's on the way any time hold on we're coming
Do you ever that isn't that like a jinx right there?
You know what I mean like do you ever celebrate something you've been inside your head you celebrate something a little bit before you should
Don't ever do that am I super stitious cuz I believe that way if you think that that's how it truly works
But I think I think it's super stitious
But I also think there's some psychology behind yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
Yeah, we're especially if you realize if you just realize oh, I just celebrated early right there
So it's gonna make you uneasy there's something like a I feel like that guy
That guy got a certain level of satisfaction just by saying like don't worry
We're coming like he had this moment of glory. That's glorious. They'd be able to say yeah, don't worry. We're coming. Yeah, it's a glorious thing to be able to say
any
took that
He took the easy money right there
Psychologically instead of being like hey, we're not there yet when you'd be ready
Right, right, I don't know if you know what we're talking about where we are yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
Finished strong right kind of thing. It's like the guy who's running the touchdown right
He's right you celebrate it's the 30 yard line right the 25 we put the hand out. Who was that?
There's like a classic
And the guy creeps up behind them. Hey, you know what this guy was name Leon
Let he played for the I want to say Dallas Cowboys he was like a
Like a deep around the way of year I want to say 90s me
How many other Dallas Cowboys players can you remember the name up from the 90s?
Can you remember a lot of them? Like a handful just let the quarter Leo
Remember him he's he's infamous. It's like for this I mean for a guy, you know, he's a defensive like line man or something
Recoveres a firm will runs it in for the touchdown and he's he's doing he's not even doing putting the above his head
He's putting it on the side kind of like celebrating
It's home and I think they stripped them and recovered it. I think if I'm not mistaken
Yeah, I was psychologically you can't stop you got a finished strong easy money. You got to finish sprint through the finish
Like or that like races like a hundred meter dash, you know the guys like or the 200 meter
And he's like yeah, I want it. I know the real hungry guy gets it
You know right there. So that's half half takes the easy money. Tang can be doing it off
Back to the book in the sure knowledge that before us was the last chance for our salvation
We feverously awaited the decisive hour with a feeling of confidence
The orders we expected could not be delayed much longer
But all too soon our hopes would be bitterly disappointed
Alarming messages began to came in rapidly attacking Russian tank forces were embroiling the relieving army and heavy fighting
We're slowing the advance and finally leading in connection with the Russian offensive group operations west of the dawn to a serious crisis for the entire army group
One of the attacks hit Colonel General Hoff who is hastening towards us in
fearful tension and delay mounting an agitation
We read the messages we were receiving from the far distant German air reconnaissance and radio surveillance units
Soon these brought news of disaster
The relief operation had began to run down Hoffs forces in turn threatened with being surrounded were finally forced to retreat
The front fell back hundreds of kilometers and the encircled Stalin-Grad army on the Volga was left to its fate
Only much later was I to learn of tragic details of the events and circumstances that had sealed the fate of the encircled army at this point
I did not know then that Hitler was still in no way prepared to give up Stalin-Grad in the Volga
that for the second time and
After the dramatic conflicts and the conflicts that he's talking about is between him between Hitler and the people of the his advisors
He had explicitly forbidden the breakout of the six army against the will of his chief of staff and an opposition to the demands of the army group done
So Hitler leaves them abends them
Back to the book among the circle of our closer comrades
We no longer entertained any illusions about the bleakness of our situation the German front had with drawn a great distance away
And for the time being there would be no new thought a new thought of a new relief operation
Would the German front be able to hold out for several more weeks?
It was hardly to be expected
hunger
Frost and sickness were cutting terribly into its waning strength and
Death was reaping an an uncanny harvest and not only on the fire spewing iron ring around the pocket
And even the conditions for a great saving breakout operation scarcely existed any longer
In such an event the army would only be able to remain a mobile for a few kilometers because of the lack of fuel
And if Stalin gruddled were to be given up what then would happen to the growing army of wounded sick and exhausted men?
Did the okay age
Intent to give up the vulga at all?
The measures ordered so far seemed to point the opposite way once again
I was often forced to recall Hitler's fanatical war words about the German soldier on the vulga about Stalin grudd and each time
An icy unease crept through my bones
Maybe yes, maybe we were supposed to hold on to the bitter end to stay put and fight to the last bullet
On the dark horizon the outlines of a terrible disaster began to emerge
Christmas Eve approached
All the visible and invisible wounds which the cruel events had caused burned even more painfully on this night
The atmosphere was depressed memories of former Christmas celebrations with their blissful shimmer only dimly illuminated our harsh reality as from a world-born gone
The well-loved Christmas carols sounded in low melancholy sadness so
Hope is pretty much vanquished at this point not completely because he's still in May
He's still saying maybe maybe they're just gonna leave us here and fight to the last man which is a crazy thought because I'm gonna say this number again
250 to 300,000 soldiers
Hmm, this isn't like hey you've got 18 guys fight to last man. It's the Alamo, right?
This isn't that
This is because that
That might have you know that that's not gonna have a strategic impact on the situation you lose 300,000
Combat veterans which which you know hard combat hardened veterans this is gonna have a strategic implication
I mean of course every soldier
That dies is is a
Epic event in that soldier's life obviously and their family and everything else
But when you start talking about leaving
300,000 people to die for nothing
It's he still can't quite get that he's still not quite there. He sees it on the horizon. He's not quite there though
Back to the book the new year had arrived
Jangling frost lay over Stalin brought over the Stalin-Drog pocket and breathe its icy deadly breath
The sharp wind blew through the joints of doors and windows and in the bunkers and from the floors the cold crept up to one's knees
The daily casualty reports from our divisions that increasingly reported losses other than by enemy action
Represented a shattering balance on the death sheet
So what he's saying there is like yeah people are dying from combat, but even more people are dying just from cold and starvation
Again the Russians furiously attacked
Several sectors of our perimeter what did we have left to oppose these powerful Russian elite troops
Who were protected from the frost and had a full stomach not to mention their numerous tanks guns rocket launchers and mortars
Only small numbers of heavy weapons with insufficient strictly rationed ammunition
It's all we had
Only a machiated men
Exhausted by hunger among whom the fighting the cold and spreading diseases were taking of daily frightening toll
How much longer could the perimeter withstand the pressure?
It did not escape our attention that the Russians appeared to be concentrating in front of our sector and preparation for a major blow
The last saw sad possibility grew even clearer on the dark horizon the fate of our destruction by a shattering offensive
breaking over our heads
So again, it's interesting that this guy's well two things I should point out number one
It's interesting that this guy's perspective because he's in the staff and so he sees more of what's happening from the general officers
But let's also make note that he's not in the front lines and he's so he has it relatively good
meaning
these protected by the by the rush from the Russians by some distance. I mean he's still getting more to
etc. So getting artillery
But he's not he's not I with the Russians like the guys like the soldiers on the front lines that are sitting in a little slit trench in the ground
in the tundra
One of the things that he sees is a meeting here. We go back to the book an important meeting of the general staff took place at our core
Which the commander in chief of the army general Paul is attended with his chief of staff the serious reserved
Expression of the tall figure with the head of a scientist reflected something of a burden of responsibility that press down
Tormentingly on the shoulders of this man
Who is the last time I was to see our army commander in the pocket as far as I can remember he never visited our core again
I soon learned of the outcome of the meeting and the grave words of our general staff officers left no doubt about the consequences of the orders that had been issued in the meantime
They dealt with the mobilization of the last reserves of the sixth army the encircled forces would a hold on and fight to the last
For this purpose the formation of fortress battalions was to be prepared and executed as quickly as possible
All remaining reserves of able-bodied men were to be collected and used as infantry members of the Luftwaffe ground personnel and anti-aircraft
Troops gunners who no longer had guns, pans or grenadiers, engineers, truck drivers, clerical staffs, re-election law and supply personnel or once again to be ruthlessly combed out
The order amounted to the virtual dissolution of the re-election law services and clearly demonstrated that the
Emovalized army was doomed to stay put and fight to the last man and the last bullet
So there you go
Everyone's gonna fight cooks supply people you're all gonna be coming for treatment now
And this clearly indicates to a to a weater that that means they're not going anywhere and they're gonna stay there and they're gonna fight the last man
Back to the book we felt that we had already been written off by the higher-ups
And all that remained for us was to perform a heroic a futile gesture to ensure the fulfillment of a the historic mission
And he's got quotes around that of the army of stalling rat on the vulga
The troops were again given the cheering radio message which the fewer and supreme war lord had sent at the turn of the year
Six army has my promise that everything is being done to get it out
But we now view this not just without
But as downright deception
So I don't believe it, learn anymore
They used to just doubt him now now they think he's deceiving him and again this is not there's no small group people
Back to the book the bread ration was reduced to 50 grams per day
ringing cold knowing hunger creeping illness enemy fire
combined
in an indesoluble offensive pact
Disentery and typhoid fever had appeared as uncanny guests and the plague of life increased from day to day
Death danced as murder as a wrong no back and forth throughout the pocket his head quarters were the numerous places of suffering
Disparer the dressing stations and field hospitals that filled to overflowing alarmingly
But he also felt at home on the lines day and night so death is everywhere
And isn't weird you know you think like just being sick you would tell me you were sick a couple days ago
common cool but yeah, and you think about
What being sick does to you and now this is your being sick and it doesn't matter like there's no mercy
Yeah, you're there's no mercy
Back to the back during back the book during 50 days that pocket battle lasted so far
He and he's talking about death he had already cleaned out horribly among the men of the army
About one third of its manpower was gone
Of the more than 300,000 men who were present at the time of the Russian breakthrough about 200,000 were probably still alive
And how many of these enduring and hoping fighting and suffering human beings had death not already marked on his own?
News that we could no longer count on any relief before spring was really shattering
There was nothing more to be done saved a hang on and endure the horror
Now we get a little opportunity here
Here we go there was a surrender proposal sent to our encircled army by the Soviet Supreme Command
The document was addressed to Paulus who had been promoted to Colonel General and to all the officers and men of the German forces fighting its dollar and Rod
It was signed by
Colonel General of the artillery
We've worn Varonov and by the commander and chief of the forces of the Don front
Lieutenant General Rokus Vinsky
Who had now obviously been put in so charge of all the forces surrounding us
The proposal began with a short factual and largely correct evaluation of our situation
In particular it stressed the catastrophic state of supply of our troops who were suffering from hunger
Cold and sickness lack of winter clothing and terribly insanity conditions
Realistic possibilities of breaking the encircling ring no longer existed
Any further resistance and such a hopeless situation had to be senseless
Therefore in order to avoid further unnecessary shedding of blood the red army was proposing a number of terms
The document ended with a reference directed to the commander and chief of Stalin-Grad army
Pointing out that in the event of refusal the forces of the red army and air force would be obliged to destroy the pocket for which he
Colonel General Paulus would bear the responsibility
There's still got 200,000 people and
You get an offer you get 24 hours to
Respond
Basically surrender everybody
Yeah, everybody's gonna surrender yeah and and
They weren't sure how they were gonna get treated. I mean they were fairly confident wasn't be treated good
I don't know though man it's all the disinterior
That's not treated very good either. That's not treating you very good at all
Back to the book we soon received various orders directives and messages whose burden was that the surrender
Was out of the question
The commander and chief had passed the Russian ultimatum onto the fear of headquarters and asked for freedom of action for all of
Enjualities in immediate reply hit the red personally for bidon surrender
And Paulus had rejected in writing the proposal the
Soviet command
The troops were not informed
Not to be informed in detail, but from now on they were ordered to fire without warning on flags of truth
Of truth appearing near the front lines this instruction from army
Which we received by radio was especially revealing as to the intentions of leadership
In our staff it was received with rejection and objection because it was a clear breach of international law
So they don't get told like hey we're not surrounding what they get told is
If you see anyone with flags of truth shoot them immediately which is basically saying we're not surrendering
Back to the book I was reminded again of Hitler's high-sounding words about the invincibility of the German soldier for whom nothing must be seen to be impossible
The very thought of capitulation must be an irreconcilable must be irreconcilable with the prestige of the supreme warlord
He puts that in quotes every time I don't call it out every time but he does
He's sort of mocking Hitler with that in his speech and Munich shortly before our encirclement he had
Had he not solemnly sworn you may rest assured I repeat this with full responsibility before God and history that we shall never again leave
Stalin-Grad never again
For life or death we were committed to the cheerless don step
Here our fate must come falter
The most terrible weeks were still before us and during those icy days in January the fearful
Premonition of what was to come descended upon us like a lead weight
On the morning of 10 January 1943 exactly 24 hours after the ultimatum had expired
The Russian began the destruction of the pocket with the hellish artillery barrage
It was the answer to the rejection of the surrender proposal up up front among the staff
On the line I again entered the atmosphere of tension excitement nervousness and despair the situation was partially unclear and confused the
Caterphe the catastrophe did indeed appear to be unavoidable
Into this helpless situation orders from army came in time and time again defend hold clear up the situation fight to the last bullet
From their desks 2000 kilometers away and he puts in parentheses and exclamation point
the okay age
Together with the constantly interfering fear her fear or headquarters for bade any independent withdrawal from endangered from endangered sectors of the perimeter
And army which had to meticulously justify itself for any change in the front line caused by the pressure of circumstances obeyed
So this classic it's micro management not decentralized command. They're even saying look if you're if your perimeter is gonna collapse don't fall back just die
Which is ridiculous because it doesn't help the situation because now there's a hole and now more more enemy are gonna come through the hole and we're gonna have people behind us
It's like full on kind of what you're talking about last week maybe before last week
It's like do it because I said so kind of think like this no really he is gonna die. There's no reason to do it no strategic reason
No tactical reason obviously
Let's do it because I said so die whatever. Yeah, the army core
Divisions and regiments obeyed often with bitter criticism with open or hidden reservations flaring up or knuckling under
but they obeyed
And the suffering and dying of troops in the trenches and foxholes in the icy step-o-bade
Giving their all in the natural fulfillment of their duty or an apathy and silent despair
The higher leadership did not stand with recognition
Promotions decorations and metals rain down on mass on the fighting suffering doomed men
But what purpose did this huge monstrous commitment and dedication of human being serve
in the face of the increasingly health military helplessness and the daily worsening human
Plight I was becoming more and more depressed by the torturing question of the why of this sacrifice of most precious blood this
Pitalist dying
Was it not only for the sake of of a prestige that a military supreme command
Thousands of kilometers removed mercilessly wish to maintain then for whom the price in many thousands of human lives did not appear to be too high
This question haunted me and would not leave me until the final sorrowful ending
So he's asking why
They start to collapse from the perimeter of the pocket in towards the city of Stalingrad
Because they were kind of pushed out around it surrounding it and now they're starting to fall back to it
Where they at least have some coverage back to the book the withdrawal of the troops finally turned into a full-fledged flight into which further
Formations and combat groups of various divisions were drawn
Whole units cease to exist in this confusion in the sector of our neighbor to our left this fate also put an end to a whole division
That had long been under our command and in the end had burned out like a slag heap
I saw its distraught general now a commander without troops wandering around in a bunker desperately seeking a new assignment
So he just lost 20,000 men he's walking around saying one of my supposed to do now
Back to the book and this desperate withdrawal was being carried out in icy cold weather and
Piddlest snowstorms at 30 degrees sent to grade below zero
That's negative 22
At 30 degrees below zero the remnant of the regiments that had shrunk to combat groups and the suffering
Hards of their shadow of other shattered units moved over the empty white steps staggering crowds
Dragging stracking crowds of lost lightly wounded and frostbitten soldiers with them
How many of those that so far had been spared enemy fire succumbed there to exhaustion and over exertion to the strains of hunger and to the cold
Inumerable men fell by the wayside and were soon mercifully covered over by the snow
And this was no longer an authorized withdrawal
The recoil of the front was now taking place despite standing orders to hold and maintain position at all costs and
Despite the line of resistance laid down by the okay age
So they finally did break and they finally said you know what
Survival this is about survival and we're not staying here anymore. We're gonna try and get back
Fall back
The psychological ability of the troops to resist had now also been eroded
There could no longer be any doubt about our fate
After the enemy had begun as decisive attack bent on destruction and our
Disillusion was in full progress. It was too late for a last departure attempt to break out to the west
Help from outside could no longer be considered more devastating even than the enemies weapons
Where hunger exhaustion cold and illness of all kinds among the soldiers who had not been adequately fed for so many long weeks
With the advent of the incredible indescribable strains of daily retreats the situation had deteriorated
catastrophically
We were lacking in food weapons rest warmth
hope
In short, we were lacking in all the vital conditions for fighting
Since the long rejection of the surrender proposal the troops had again survived a long terrible week of
Tenacious defensive fighting retreat and flight there by tying down superior enemy forces in their area
Now after the loss of our life support base
Petomnik airfield on January 16th the time really seemed to have come to stop fighting
The airlift temporarily ceased altogether
No more food and ammunition came in the wounded in sick could no longer be flown out and so
That's where they're getting their supplies into
Petomnik airfield and that's actually where this guy was for a large chunk of this battle
It's now gone so now they even you know before they were only getting one fifth of what they needed
Well now they're getting zero
By now every day that the fighting was prolonged was costing thousands of human lives
There was no more time to be lost and we waited for something to happen like me in
Newmirable comrades and brothers in fate probably clung to the same secret hope but nothing happened
And tragedy took its course
The Russians by using their storm troops during the initial days of the offensive it would probably have been very easy for them
To make a further effort and liquidate the pocket relatively quickly
But they no longer needed to make such a highly costly attempt time was on their side
By bearing down on our tenacious defense with a crushing attack our enemy had won its penetration into the pocket
Now he was no longer in a hurry and no longer appeared to consider his victim to be very dangerous
The battle that had begun in the meantime was merely a question of finishing off a wounded game already marked
For death
For some time already the Russians had dictated the course of events
The date of our final end depended on their will alone
The stations of the cross of an army of 200,000 soldiers particularly because of the slow helpless death of such a vast number of human beings
Made anything seen before with the exception of verb done pale by comparison
A part of the entire German nation was sentenced to death here and by this its vital substance was dangerously under attack
The moral effect of these events touched the whole nation
In the midst of the general destruction of the army there were thousands of individual tragedies
whose localities of horror were the numerous collection points for the sick and wounded
whole convoys of mostly open trucks overloaded with their pitiful freight of freezing wounded groaning sick and dying move deeper into the pocket
From the second half of January until the bitter end
The harsh suffering of the fighting soldiers continued by day and night
After eight evil weeks of indescribable torture and deprivations
They were now plunged into a veritable hell of hopelessness and destruction
Time and again it was fight resist hold to the end then disengage with draw turn back and dig in again for defense in the snow and stonally
Harg frozen earth time and again there were heavy losses panic and flight and then never ending use the struggle
Struggle against hunger and cold
Among the staffs there was an unending tension
Proplexity and despair and feverish activity leadership was still to be seen
From the higher-head commands came continual orders
Directives questions add munitions threats
Criticism opposition and misgivings were not lacking at the lower levels, but for the time being the mechanisms of command still function
So despite all this and even though they're having this this
Hastie would draw that's going against orders. There still are
Direction coming out. There's till people being disciplined
In the midst of the general suffering and dying we helplessly watch the catastrophe and of destruction approaching us
mercilessly and inexorably
The terrible human tragedy that was nearing its climax was finally commented commented upon by the war
News broadcasted home in the pretty and spirited words
Equate in stonel and grad
Sixth Army is attaching immortal honor to its banners by its heroic and self-sacrificing battle against crushing odds
Many of my comrades had mentally written themselves off intentions to commit suicide were voiced with increasing frequency
Others had given their valuables and wedding rings to be to the wounded being flown out I
Myself had been had so far been at pain to prepare my relatives for the catastrophe by means of sparse hints
Now I felt the need to send home open word of farewell and gratitude
The letter was hard to write in my ears once more rang rang the last goodbye my wife and
Employingly and besiegingly called down the telephone line to Kiev on a spring evening of last year before the seemingly
Endless space of Russian planes had swallowed me up
Now all would soon be over
When I sealed the letter I was gripped by a specially deep despair
I felt as though I were suddenly looking into an abyss of suffering and hopelessness towards which our whole nation was
Reeling as if the events in stalin grad were a preview of an
Immeasurable disaster that was to break upon Germany
The general of this division division had a nervous breakdown and was no longer fit for command
His hopes of being flown out with the badly wounded and second not been fulfilled
He now had to share the fate of his soldiers to the bitter end
This general who a short time before was a commander of a division had carried the responsibility from many thousands of men
Was once more a mere human being trembling for his life
Then did his questions not reveal the same fear that secretly tormented all of us
We made one another realize that the impending military
Cretastrophe was also a political catastrophe the result of presumptuous beliefs and actions that had long
Shaken the healthy foundations of our intellectual cultural and national life
Had the power that we served as citizens and soldiers bent its knee before the law that was rooted in the code of ethics
Or rather had not a new gospel of violence been proclaimed and introduced that in a fatal reversal of all values had ceased to differentiate
Between right and wrong
So these guys are realizing what's coming around what's coming around?
He's realizing that the path that they went down as a country was wrong
Back to the book by means of destructive battle against the universal educational and cultural powers of
Classic antiquity humanism and Christianity and anti intellectual political religion of power
Had successfully extracted the German people from the best of the commonly held European body of human thought and
thereby also out of any commitment to the objective concepts of truth
Compassion and justice
Is that is that his conclusion like
During this events or yes during these events he's realizing what what's happening?
Is that they were wrong
And they went I mean the thing that's crazy about
Nazi Germany is how fast that transition took place like the talking 10 years
What the rise of the Nazis rise the Nazis or they're they're they're
Yeah, the rise of the Nazis straight up
1933 they started now 1943 so or 10 years and you have a completely different viewpoint of the world
That's okay, I mean and it's not they're going against
They see what like they're going against the traditional values
They're going against hey, you know they're going against the Christian values
They're going against the cultural values they're going against the national values
They're going against them. Yeah, it's I wonder how much of it is that you know like the soldiers and that even the people in the Nazi party
I wonder how much of it is like denial, you know, you know where it's you know how like you're signed on to like some leader during the during the time being yeah
Yeah, or you saying right now how much of this denial no no no no
During during the last you know, it's like remember rap and egg egg
You remember that there was one of the nicest guys one of the guys who made the biggest sacrifice was a was a straight-up actual Nazi
And you made massive sacrifice until queued risk to save as many people as he could by the way not white people not
Ariens, but but Chinese
So so there's a guy that
You know was more related to the traditional
Christian intellectual
Values right and yet okay the people that are in charge of the country is Nazi so I guess that makes me an Nazi
Yeah, and here we go and so and these guys war situation because their soldiers
So now they're fighting for that evil force
And like you said there's some denial you also get caught up and clearly the Germans got caught up in the nationalism
They got caught up hitler was a great orator and a very moving speaker and they got caught up in that and they were in a very depressed economy
So those things all kind of came to it they'd been in their mind screwed over in World War one and
You know defeated and then treated badly and you know there's this whole thing about Hitler's mustache
You know Hitler's got the funny mustache and
There's some debate on on how much of this is
Actually true, but whether it's true or not as a little bit it doesn't really matter
Because what it represents so the deal was that Hitler's mustache if you wanted to have a mustache during World War one
Because of wearing a gas mask you had to cut your mustache like that
Mm-hmm Hitler still wore his mustache like that it was like a constant symbol that
He remembered he remembered because he was in World War one and he was wounded in World War one and
Through even despite all that insane sacrifice they didn't win and
They didn't like the way they got treated by the treated Versailles and so they had that angst
They had the economic angst they had all those angst built up and hit look came along and was
Ready to let them focus on something else and and now what what
Weedor is realizing here is like yeah, he had us focus on something else all right and what he helped how to focus on wasn't good. It was evil
This is
crude
Analogy
You ought to training day. I have watched training day, but that's kind of the same thing when you watch because
Jinway because the new he's the trainee by the way when I see a movie I see it like one time in an airplane and I know
Yeah, yeah, so I'm not I'm not gonna be fully familiar with
Comparing the rise of Nazi journaling enough that's millions of people to the movie training
And this is total speculation is just what we're talking about as far as like you know people
They're signed on hey, I'm German, you know, it's cool and you know world German work
You know solidarity we're doing and then kind of the Nazi party starts rising starts giving these sort of
Certain types of influence and they're like oh all right cool. I mean, I wasn't really thinking that but all right we're still Germans
We're cool and it starts escalating and slowly it's like okay, so you can't turn back
That's what happens training game right yeah, like he he signed on he signed on and he's like dang
He's like I don't know about all this, but all right. Hey, I'm signed on to the cause and after awhile
Which is the same point that this guy got?
I'm got to where it's like man. Okay. You guys pushed it too much man. I can't sign on to this and then you reflect back on all the vitally
Ships you don't like you start to slip
You start to slip when you don't hold the line. Yeah, things that's what happens yeah, and
That's what makes leadership hard that's what makes life hard
Yeah, it's really easy to get tempted to go down these trails these paths
That are not what you should be doing
Right and like I you got a kind of in mintment. It's hard because in the in the beginning like
You know, you're you're going on a path you're already signed on right and you see one teeny tiny violation
And it's like what am I gonna do like make this big stink about this teeny tiny violation?
Yeah, sure, then you keep going and then you'd already made that exception
Yeah, time goes on is what you can do bring that little thing again. Psychologically what
Denzel Washington
He's he's he doesn't introduce he's gonna straight to level eight violation right? He just gets little yeah little violation
To 20 feet down the pit a little bit of abuse there, but hey, we're fighting bad
It's a bad call good and then like a little like what what you know
Yeah exactly right and that's that's what that's what Hitler did yeah
That's what Hitler started with like hey, you know, we don't want to have this happening
Yeah, we gotta keep these things in check. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, look we're gonna at least we're gonna
Put the Jews in a neighborhood right we'll put them in a separate neighborhood that way. They're not amongst us right?
Put them over there. You know and that's okay
You know what we're actually not gonna win them. We're gonna move them somewhere else
We're gonna work camp okay, and then you just right you slowly escalating for your murdering two six million people
And then all of a sudden what you're not signing on all of a sudden. Yeah, and a thing and you're like
Damn, oh, it's a sign on to some of the stuff earlier, but I had let it go. I'm trapped
You know, yeah, I'm not your trapped and that's where he is right now and he's trapped facing his death
And recognize yeah recognizing that
Yeah, successfully
Extracted the German people from the best of the commonly held European body of human thought like you
Same exactly what you just said success successively. It's just a little bit of a time
of it back to the book all of us who were a uniform were entangled in a fabric of
Developments and circumstances that we certainly had not sought or desired
Now let's not make any excuses
Let's not make any excuses
But we see how it kind of happened as you just said
We surely could not believe that our employment here in Stalingrad was part of a noble legitimate battle for
German in interests
painfully we felt that the soldierly virtues of bravery commitment loyalty no beatings to duty in the objective sense
We're being despicably misused
This deep in the tragedy of cruel events in which we now would have to atone for much that we had never wanted
So yeah
That's
You know I've heard that argument sometimes
If you well you're gonna kill but there's a bad regime and you're gonna go and you're gonna attack the regime and then some of the people that are just there by chance
You know you hear that argument well
They're allowing that regime to exist
Now that's a tough argument to have because you got some of you for them to
Rebell could mean death
So they don't get they don't rebel and so they end up in a bad situation that's a tough one
Yeah, but somebody asked me the other day
Yeah, it's a long those lines
You know some long winded questioning on Twitter about what would you do if you were in a
In you know inside of a state that was Bob all you know repressive and etc. etc. No, this is a go-on word answer rebellion
Now what I have the
Mentality that I have right now if I grow up in one of those repressive states probably now I probably just want to survive and get some more bread. Yeah, right?
I might not just be thinking hey there's there's something more important than me and that's freedom
And
This maybe I wouldn't think that maybe I just be thinking hey I want some maybe I can get an extra 20 grams of bread
No, no
All right back to the book in this is good in
The proximity of death
Things appeared in their true light and proper order
In such a situation the Bible speaks to us with an insistence and clarity the like of which we had never felt
They're understood before the fear and misery at the edge of our existence had given us a religious experience who strength giving power
bound us together
So he's starting to see relative there's no atheist and a foxhole guess what?
According to weater that's a very accurate statement
Among my favorite books in the little private library I had taken with me to the eastern front was a copy of Marcus Araleus's
self observations
I
To had often found support and comfort in it
It had contributed markedly to completing my equipment for war by serving me as a suit of armor that
Protected me from all two frequent warnings by events and giving me an inner
equanimity
Now this book to
Like several others had become meaningless
The wisdom of the world the wisdom of the world
With its merely human temporal comfort had failed
It did not penetrate into the
Ultimate and most profound and could no longer stand firm in the terrible shock and helplessness whose mercy I felt
Myself to be in in extreme distress with the ground shaking underfoot and
Amenacing a bits of nothingness seeming to open before me. There was only one last support
The comforting strength of the Christian belief
Perhaps we could pass some of this comfort and support on to other comrades who bewildered were
Reeling toward the abyss
In their desperation faced with the destruction of a whole world of concepts and in a view of the senseless
Senselessness of the catastrophe many a soldier on the staffs as well as within the fighting troops had reached for his pistol to put an end to his life
There was no way back and no escape other disguise their secret fear and inner feelings of emptiness
Behind a contrived soldierly stance or even deliberately assumed to the cast of
Mind of a lanks neck
Which is like these guys were these old school German mercenaries that were
Super hardcore if they themselves were doomed to go under they would at least sell their skin
So dearly to the end and take as many Russians with them as they could now that's interesting he's he's
projecting on these soldiers
That you know that they're disguising their secret fear
You know what I'm telling you right now that some of those Nazi German soldiers they were
They were getting after it right they weren't they weren't
hiding their their secret fear by acting tough they were ready to die for the fear
So let's not just paint with a broad brush there in my opinion
If we agreed that suicide was out of the question for religious and ethical reasons
As normal we human beings caught up in error and guilt there was nothing left to
To us put to drink the cup of suffering to the last bitter drags
Yeah
In the meantime something unbelievable to happen and made quickly made the rounds our quartermaster
A still young general staff officer had suddenly disappeared his driver who had taken to the
Gumrak air base had waited in vain for his return the lieutenant Colonel was missing
He had silently left Stalin-Grad left the Stalin-Grad pocket the zone of death and destruction on his own initiative
Probably is a mixture of nerves fear cowardice and the vain hope then in the general confusion
He might be able to fly out and save his life that attempted him to desert
The commanding general had made increase by radio the deserting staff officer had shown up at army group
Plaming the flow now on official assignment from the core on matters of supply
Our general was wild with indignation and rage to declare that he would have the criminal flown back into the pocket and shot before our eyes
We were all deeply depressed and and with and anticipated with horror the terrible scene that had been announced
And which we were spared to our relief our quartermaster was shot outside the pocket on the spot where in his fatal weakness
He had hoped to find a door to freedom in life so again even though I just talked about some of the Nazis being
Committed to the end there was many of them that were just trying to get the hell out of there
Back to the book our commanding general spoke openly of the impending collapse
Occusingly and with bitterness and secret anger he pointed out that it was not our fault
We had gotten into this deviless situation of a catastrophe from which there was no longer means of escape. Okay
Here he is the commanding general is now saying hey look. This is not our fault
So clear he's obviously not taking any ownership of this, but okay, so it's only asking this
Okay, Jocco what would it how would it help him if he was to take ownership of it right now?
Right if he was to say hey, this is my fault
Would it help him could it could if you say hey look this is my fault. This is why this happened
Would that help him right now
No, you're right it wouldn't help them what did have helped him a
Month or two months ago if he said to himself look we're in the situation
I need to take ownership of it and get it fixed what it have helped them you're damn right it would of
He was saying you know what Hitler might not tell might be telling us not to break out guess what Hitler's not here
We're gonna break out I'll go get shot for defying his orders. That's fine. I'll save all of you
That's that's where ownership would have come in but what he said was like wait wait
We're assigned to our fate. I talk about this all the time just because the boss tells you
Or doesn't give you this support that you need or gives you a bad order that doesn't give you the excuse
You can't put the ownership on the boss and you're the one in charge you take ownership of it
You get the problem solved he didn't do that
So he he's not I don't want to say allow to say it's not our fault, but he okay him saying it's not our fault
Is a kind of a different circumstance? Why because they're past the point of no return because they're doomed already
Yes, because they don't have any
You know take responsibility and then take responsibility for the
Fixing the mistakes there is no fixing mistakes anymore. That's why if I was him
Yeah, I would have said hey guys. It's not your fault that you're here. This is my fault
I should have made a moonover. I should have stood up to the boss. I didn't here's what we're gonna do now defend ourselves the best of our ability
right, right, so then that would still give the guys some
Breathing room right some psychological breathing room
They fought hard they did their best. It's my fault. I should have I should have held you guys do something different and I didn't
Here's what we're gonna do now the fact that he that these that he wasn't taking ownership earlier
the fact that he's able to blame now
Means he was able to blame earlier and if you're but the minute you start blaming you're not solving anything
You're not getting things done. There you go
Yeah
Back to the book, but he left no doubt that together we still had a task to perform naming to namely to fulfill our
Soldiers, we were soldially due to duty to the last moment. You know, beating into the orders from above we were defend our perimeter
Fighting shoulder to shoulder with our carbines to the last bullet from his words we could surmise that he was
Stanchly determined to go down like a captain with his ship and not to survive the downfall of his troops
On equivocally he pointed out that the commandments of the traditional ethical code of the soldier now demand at our ultimate sacrifice without
Demur
Now at this point he's supposed to go out and do a do like a reconnaissance of the lines and see what's going on
And when he's up there here's what he sees in freezing cold and wild snow for your flurry
Zyrode across the desolate battlefield on a motorcycle together with a sergeant of the military police
We soon reach the road of catastrophic
We soon reach the road of catastrophe arising dark gray against the backdrop of a snow bound step marked by all kinds of abandoned rubbish
Half-covered cadavers of horses and wrecked vehicles scattered pieces of equipment crates destroyed weapons
The disperse the starving the freezing the sick
But all those still fit for fighting had only one objective to which they were attaching their last glimmering as of hope and this objective was stolen
Grot in the protective walls of the sellers of the ruins. They might still be able to find some warmth
Food rest sleep and salvation and so they streamed by the remains of the shattered and decimated formation
Trains and re-election on services with vehicles that were slowly being dragged and pushed by wounded sick and frost bitten men
There were a macheted figures among them muffled in coats, rags, pitiful rags, painfully dragging themselves forward
Leaning on sticks and hobbling all along the frozen feet wrapped in whispers of straw and strips of blankets
Drifting along through the snowstorm this was the wreck of the six-th Army that had advanced to the vulga during the summer so confident of victory
Men from all over Germany doomed to destruction in a far-off land mutely enduring their suffering
Tottered in pitiful drove
Drills through the murderous eastern winter
These were the same soldiers who had formally marched through the large parts of Europe's as proud conquerors
Now the enemy was at their backs and death lurked everywhere
There's an interesting piece that I don't go into too much but this guy had written a paper
and presented it up the chain of command
with talking about what happened in Napoleon and he got kind of told like hey that's not going to happen
us back to the book the events of 1812 seemed to be repeating themselves after all once again the
Uncanny Russian space was swallowing many tens of thousands of human beings despite Napoleon's
Experience the basic elements of geography and meteorology had again been ignored to a frightening degree
On top of that the modern superstition that with the help of machines and motors the impossible could be accomplished and the dangers of space overcome
had also contributed to our downfall
And in a fatal pact with the overestimation of mechanized means of war had stood the misapprehension of the limits of human strength and possibilities
Yeah repeat
Yeah, you think that one another one of those classic lines that's not gonna happen us. Oh, yeah, that's like it feels like yeah
You know, that's a classic mistake. It's called the ego called lack of humility
Don't want to happen us happen to Napoleon one of the greatest you know military leaders of all time
But it won't happen us because we have some cars we got some tanks or whatever but by the way tanks tank fuel
Where's that fuel gonna come from
I mean at least a horse can eat at peace a hey right sure you know
There's no
Exxon station out there on the steps
Back to the book together with several wounded we dragged ourselves on words until exhausted and shattered
We finally reached the ruins of rubble of Northern Stalingrod City area so now he's actually
Was retreating back to Stalingrod itself
What trails did fate still hold and store for us?
Death whom I'd faced more often and closely in recent days than ever before was still refusing me
But as trusted companion for many weeks hunger was tormenting me with tenacious power
Soly making me ripe for the end and
Frost the third murderer in the trio had also bitten me by now as the constant stabbing pains and some of my limbs warned me
Separated from our staff our group of officers found shelter in a dark dirty cellar while our men went to ground in a neighboring pile of rubber rubble
This was to be the end of our flight and our last quarters
The army had once again addressed itself to
okay, H and pointing adamantly to the catastrophic situation had asked for immediate permission to surrender
Which might possibly prevent still complete dissolution
Disolution and total disaster
Hey, Lersancer had been a steely no
For bid surrender Hitler had radiot into the pocket on 25 January the army will hold its position to the last man and bullet
Imagine being that freezing hungry
Tortured by the enemy at your back and you got some guy in a
It a nice
Drediculous
It's one thing to be like yeah, we're going to the last one to last bullet and it's this big war
But it lasts and you know, I don't know week not even a week. You know like the that one big last stand
And we're going to fight to the death that's one thing and I did it and that's you know
But just weeks and weeks and weeks of just slowly dying of starvation and sickness and that's way different
It's way different to try to
Fight till the last man and the last bullet in that scenario. Yeah, especially because they they all kind of know that there's no strategic
Advantage to what they're doing
Back to the book Colonel General Paulus and his chief of staff who's fanatic will to hold out was well known among the staffs
Relentlessly held on to their fatal decision
On their part many generals and their staffs remain the executioners of the orders of destruction under the sorry circumstances for fighting
Suffering and dying continued
Torcheringly and terribly after the splitting of the pocket the death agony of the army continued for a further week
In the general dissolution and catastrophe it was every man for himself
More and more order and discipline broke down here and there and the sellers the still able body didn't combat
Were the hit among the second wounded cases of uncomrarotterly conduct theft of provisions refusal to obey orders and open mute knee-mounted
The little late
The elementary drive of self preservation no longer allowed the question of right or wrong to be raised and the same way that the differences
Between the front line and rear line S. and the rear echelon were being erased so were the differences in rank and position
In the final days summary law was imposed in stollongrad with drastic punishments for any crime
Looters were to be shot within 24 hours hundreds of German soldiers who had become weak in their misery thus became victims of German bullets
One could no longer generally speak of courageous and heroic fighting
Certainly here and there there were individual deeds of courage personal initiative and noble self self sacrifice
But by and large
Only a mute submission to the inescapable fate remained to the bitter end
It was rather the silent heroism of acceptance of suffering and submitting
Not the picture that gets painted very often now at this point at this point right now in this battle is when they hear that speech
That goering said talking about this great sacrifice and how they fought so well and how they'll be remembered
forever
and compared them to lianides and the
300 Spartans at thermopoli. It's just
And here's what these guys thought
With overexaggerated feverish pathos this see the speaker recalled the heroic example of the last of the Goths and in the end the historical
So famous sacrifice of the Spartan heroes at thermopoli who had not fault faltered or given ground until the last fighter had fallen
And so it was at Stalin grad just like lianides in his loyal men in the Greek defile
So with the German heroes lie on the vulga as the law of honor and conduct in war commanded them to do for Germany
During this speech full of empty phrases and lies that out did itself in his sterical glorification and praises the demeanor of the deeply
Delusioned and incensed audience became more and more hostile
The glances gestures and words all around unmistakably showed the rage that was growing in people's souls
Whoever might still have trusted in the promise of help from the outside now had to recognize with growing horror that at home
Where relatives still hope for a union the warriors of Stalin grad had finally been written off
We felt that we had heard our own funeral oration before it's time
The disgusting adulation of the tortures dying of our army and the deceit for glorification of conditions that were against all laws of humanity
filled me with indignition and
Revolution
Must not going go onings words have pierced the hearts of our loved ones at home like daggers and rob them of all hope now that they had been
Fknown in the most anxious fears of art for our lives at home. We had been declared dead
The heroization and mythical glorification of our stolen grad army was supposed to conceal the sad truth
For a long time now the heroic tale of the German soldier on the vulga had become an irresponsible mass dying ordered from on high
The pathetic propaganda of glorification was obviously intended to distract from the catastrophic consequences
of a criminally amateurist leadership of war and to prevent the question of blame from even arising
So you pretty much see how these guys felt at the end
And now you might think you might think that there's a disconnect between
Hitler, like hate, we're proud we're fighting to the end and this is the way the Germans are and this is the way we are we're superior
And that the guys in the ground now they'll just beat down and so maybe they're just
Maybe they're just weak right and they're just giving up you might think that
You might think that here's this will give you a little indication that that's the wrong thought
On the one February the news spread among us that Paulus had capitulated with his staff
And the two southern segments of the pocket and gone into captivity. So the leader just surrendered
At the last moment he had been promoted to field marshal
This promotion in the hour of the final catastrophe was grow test
It was simply a gesture of thanks from above and a goodbye
So Hitler thought Paulus was gonna die
Well he didn't
Paulus surrendered
But the unhappy field marshal did not set the example of heroism expected of him from the top
The German papers broad cast later broad cast later tried to spread the impression the style of going
Speech that in the face of overwhelming superiority the field marshal had burned his secret papers
And that the generals lying behind their machine guns had fought to the end
Furthermore after the catastrophe German magazines lied to the German people with faked pictures
So showing such heroic scenes
But the truth of the matter was something quite else
We calculated that more than 15 generals and their staff said gone into captivity from the southern and central pockets
Soon mosque soon the mosque our radio gave details of numbers and names
I was only to learn later that some of these generals had gone into captivity with neatly packed suitcases and
Plentiful baggage
They simply stopped fighting and gave themselves up to the victor without any further consideration for the fate of the remaining battle groups
The last request of the field marshal had been that the Russians should treat him as a private citizen
With this he had resigned the official role he had formally played in the military political
Interest of the Supreme Commander and as a broken man laid down as marshal ship
He was driven away in a closed car and no longer needed to see the appalling misery of his sacrifice to army
So there's no disconnect the troops on the ground were right
These leaders were liars weak and
They had no problem
Persuing glory with someone else's ass
But they weren't ready to do with their own
Deep down inside I had increasingly begun to oppose certain military concepts of obedience
Honor and discipline like those that had been manifesting themselves to the end in the measures taken by our command
Was this only the so this is this week? We went through all this and he's like only now
He's starting to oppose some of some of his his military concepts of obedience
If this was an American the Americans are rebellious by nature like we don't you know if you're leading us down the wrong path
We stand up and say like no you're not gonna do that stop no
He's you know here going well
They've done all this and only now am I starting to question these things and even questions his question back to the book
Was this only the revolt of my selfish instinct for self preservation was an only an unsolgedly stance fear or cowardice at a time when things had become bitterly serious
Precisely at this point. I again remember the awkward
Deeply
Attraining thoughts and feelings with which I'd ask myself at the beginning of the war why and for whom must you make this sacrifice?
The same questions that had never really taken root rose again before me
Jagannically and applicable to the whole army was there really a noble high
Holy objective at stake here in Salon grad in our and in our battle and
And ethically justified goal which could be served by ultimate human human test of giving one's life
Did soldierly honor and obedience to orders really justify this demand so casually made of us that we hold out for this lost cause
This excess of suffering and dying was this
Immeasurable sacrifice really decisive for the outcome of the war and could it serve our country and our people?
This is what this is we want to know why we talk about the wild the time there it is
Now he should have been asking that question a long time ago and he said he started to in the beginning
He started to ask that question but he didn't go through with it. You know why because they were winning
They were winning. It's easy. Don't only need no why what I could go out there you know beat this country beat that country
Lowly that country. It's pretty easy
Not getting tested
Back to the book a foreboding I had long held grew into a terrible certainty
What was happening here in Salon grad was a tragic senseless self sacrifice a scarcely credible betrayal of the final
Commitment and devotion of brave soldiers
Our innocent trust had been misused in the most despicable manner by those responsible for the catastrophe
We had been betrayed let us stray and condemned
The men of Stalingrad were dying in betrayed belief and in betrayed trust in my heart the bitter feeling of and all for nothing
Became ever more torturing
In my soul arose again the whole of the disaster of the war itself
More clearly and ever I appreciated the full measure of misery and wretchedness of the other countries in Europe
To which German soldiers and German arms had brought boundless misfortunes or he's reflecting and he's looking around saying look what we did all these other countries
Had we not so far the victors been all too prone to close our eyes and our hearts and to forget that always and everywhere
The issues were living human beings their possessions and their happiness
So like you said he turned blind eye he rolled through all these countries he did all that evil
Probably only a few among us had entertained the thought of the suffer of the thought
That the suffering and dying being caused by our sorry profession of war would one day be inflicted upon us
We had carried our total war into one region of Europe after another and thereby
Destructively interfered with the destinies of foreign nations
far too little we had asked the reason why
Then the cestides and justifications for what was happening or reflected on the
Immerserability of our political responsibility that these entailed
Misery and death had been initiated by us and now we were inexorably
Coming home to roost they were inexorably coming home to roost the step on the dawn and the vulga
Head drunk streams of precious human blood
The Russians were certainly also making cruelly high blood sacrifices in the murderous battle of Stalin
God, but they who were defending their country against a foreign aggressor knew better than
We why they were risking their lives so yeah the Russians they're fighting they're dying for sure
But they know that they're defending their homeland. It's a lot easier for them to understand
Many officers and commanders now began to oppose the insane orders
Aminating from the fear ahead quarters and being passed on by army command by this they had they began to reject the long eroded military
Concepts of honor and discipline to which the army leadership had clung until the end
In the unconditional obedience such such as was fadely being upheld here in Stalin, God
There was no longer a soldierly stance, but rather a lack of responsibility
To say that one more time this idea that unconditional obedience
Was was
Was not seen right now as a soldierly stance but a lack of responsibility because you are responsible
To do something if if you're getting bad orders you're responsible for not obeying them
And you know I get asked this question all the time not all the time, but you know sometimes
People say what if you got it?
We know what did you do if you ever got told something that you didn't believe it?
I was like well
We were home the same page like
It's not like we were getting told to do things that were immoral unethical
You know they weren't saying hey go burn this village with women and children in it
We weren't getting those orders he don't I mean we weren't getting told to do things that
That weren't that I didn't agree with that my guys didn't agree with and then that's the way the milk like are there
Other pockets where things happen? Yeah, absolutely that's what that's the horrors of war
But if we got told to do things that we didn't think we should do we were to said no not doing it
Hmm
This was open mutiny
So they've gotten to the point now finally since there were no more errors from the center towards the end many
Responsible commanders and unit leaders on the line acted on their own initiative and in a
Devar to stop the senseless shedding of blood
Many desperate stolen grout warriors in the end sought away out by suicide or by voluntary by a voluntary soldiers death
We learned of two general suit streams whose extreme resolution had been shattering won the commander of a division from Dresden had shot himself
After having ordered his son a young lieutenant to report to him to save farewell
The other the commander of a division from lower Saxony whose tactical emblem was a four leaf cloven was known
Therefore as the lucky division who did not want to survive the downfall of his men had been killed on the front line while standing erect and firing his weapon
The last pockets of resistance what was left about six shattered divisions and the remnant of other
Formations that had mean while been left to their fate by the resignation of the army command now had to bear the whole burden of the concentrated
Erotax artillery and mortar fire
It was not only the fear of the coming end the hunger clawing at my intestines and the pain from my frozen limbs that turned the last
Seemingly endless hours in the stolen grout pocket into the torches of hell for me
The proximity of death
Torred the last obscuring veils from my eyes and brought fruits of long years of individual experience as
Observations tormenting feelings and thoughts into an instant maturity
Now on the very edge of being war in its for us
Most terrible form became the inexorable revealer of all things
He's going through like spiritual awakening as he faces death in my minds
I the horrible experiences and pictures of destruction that would not leave me in peace by day or night
We're strong together in a bloody chain
Experience as an impression stretching far into the past that suddenly awoke in my sharp and memory
I discovered to be logically connected links of this fatal chain
What had formerly always caused me to have nasty premonitions and apprehensions
What had always disquited me?
I now suddenly had to recognize as having been the warning of a fatal fundamental evil
The dimensions of which I had fought not fought possible
Now
faced with the eminently impending catastrophe
Requestion about the sense of what was happening it played me so often during the war seized me again with cruel force
Hundreds of thousands of flowering human lives were suddenly being senselessly snuffed out here in Stalingrad
What an immeasurable wealth of human happiness human plans hopes talents fertile possibilities for the future were there by being destroyed forever
The criminal
Insanity of an irresponsible war management with its superstitious belief in technology and its
Under lack of feeling for the life value and dignity of man and here prepared for us a hell on earth
How could the long-eroded concepts of honor, duty, obedience, soldier,
Lehair wisdom figure any longer into our feelings thoughts and actions
To stay alive to be reunited once again with our loved ones at home this burning desire was now the drive behind all thoughts and actions
Gradually
We had a customer ourselves to the to the idea of surrendering at the first opportunity and going into Russian captivity
In the end I basically had only one wish to stay alive and healthy and going to captivity unwinded
So that's it goes into captivity
You know after going through a
I don't know if you want to call it a spiritual awakening of recognizing that his whole life
had been
Doing something evil yeah in the it's it's pretty anti climatic how it happens
How they get how they end up in captivity
Back to the book in the early minutes of captivity. I felt an easing tension and and relief
In the end the insecurity of our situation between life and death had weighed down on all of us like lead
What first attracted my attention so now they're captured what first attracted my attention imagine this
Was the fresh healthy appearance of the victors?
They're simple enviable winter clothing and good weapons
Sun sub machine guns everywhere and the uniform picture of sheep skins
Patted jackets felt boots and fur caps with broad earmuffs swinging up and down
The warmly bundled up well merged and splendidly equipped men of the red army with their chunky mostly red sheet faces
Formed a stark contrast to our death-free pale filthy
Bearded and freezing figures of misery who hung exhausted and sick and they're makes shift winter clothing
Consisting of all kinds of fur's blanket scarfs field gray head gear wounds and inadequate foot gear
This sudden meeting and comparison at once showed me how low we had sunk and how little we had been prepared for this murderous battle
Then the Soviets kind of the Russians kind of have their
Shots at him fritzy fascist Hitler kaput
They alternated threats and obviously dreadful curses and contemptuous spit
Like raging wolfs, vengeful soldiers from the rear echelons fell on the helpless victims time and time again to steal personal baggage and event their spleen
So now they're captured and the the Russians start to kind of sing and dance and and
sing and old folk songs
Back to the book all the noise and exuberance surrounding me formed a shrieking contrast to the inner and outer state which I found myself
Torn for my circle of comrades left to myself and my emotions in the midst of the joyful dancing and singing
Victors with whom no contact could be established in my inner heart
I felt abandoned and without hope totally depressed
Upluted cut off from home sunk far away subjugated to a foreign will pitously
Pityously
thrown to the mercy of an unknown powers
To be dependent on the whim of the victor constantly watched menacingly surrounded by barbed wire and guns
forced to relinquish any kind of external freedom captivity men
an unknown form of
human submission
and humiliation
It is a bounty for us human beings that a merciful hand covers the future from our eyes with an impenetrable veil
That's a really great line
Had I known then that I was destined for more than seven
Comfortless years devoid of love and filled with previously unknown mental and physical tortures and fearful uncertainties
On the borderline of life
I never would have found the strength to stand the sufferings of the initial hard months of captivity
He's saying if you would have known what the future held seven years he's about to be in captivity for
He wouldn't have even made it through
He would have given up
and
he doesn't
Talk in this book about what that
In prison was like
But he does give what I think
Is a combination of how we survived it and what he learned from it going back to the book
time and again
I was soothingly distracted from my tormenting thoughts and dark visions by the wonders of the brightly shining star filled winter sky that appeared to be so close to the touch
It constantly drew my eyes upwards as if by magical force
What it so far appeared to me as the downfall of a world come loose at the seams and a catastrophe without bounds
Suddenly took on measurable dimensions I
Regained my equilibrium and found my way back to myself
Or I had felt earlier that chaos was swallowing me up now calm and peace was flowing into my
Disquited heart
The reconciling effect came from the vast order and harmony that the sparkling mass of bright stars with their eternal walls of the universe
brought back to my attention a new
The consolation that the stars sank into my soul was strange and hardly to be grasped by the intellect
It seemed to me as if my personal fate within the framework of events on earth
Was secretly included within the vast all embracing order of the cosmos
For the mass of survivors who had escaped from the hell of Stalin-Grad
The aftermath of the tragedy lasted only for a short while
They died in their tens of thousands during the early months of captivity
Hunger and deprivation
Frost and sickness had already made them a sure prey for death
Even before the fighting stopped
With the columns of prisoners death also came to the various camps of reception
We're terrible epidemics raged everywhere
An exact accounting of the victims of Stalin-Grad
According to numbers dates and individual fates will never be made
The few that were allowed to begin a new life at home and in freedom after long years of captivity
Will always have to ask themselves how they can justify the deaths of the others by their own existence
How they can uphold and fulfill the legacy of their dead comrades
But all Germany must also loyally remember its many many sons that lie at rest in the distant Russian step
And try today and in the future to understand their unforgettable sacrifice
The innumerable mounds of soldiers graves and Stalin-Grad have long disappeared
The cemeteries were leviled soon after the battle and partially converted to soccer fields
Nothing is left of the army of simple gray crosses
But it is as if a great invisible cross were rising
There on the vulga
Casting its shadow over our nation and addressing penetrating
Admonishing words
To all of our hearts
And that
Closes out this book with
Some
penetrating and admonishing words for us because there's a lot of warnings
In this book warnings that
We must pay attention to
And if we don't pay attention to them then who will?
Warnings the lessons here first of all as a nation
As a culture we have to look at the way things fell apart in Germany
Or maybe you look at the way things came together slowly like we talked about the traditional values were
We're moved aside and they were replaced with these new values values that allegedly protected the German citizens
They were values that were going to make the world a better place
And he uses this term this political religion
That's a powerful thought
Political religion took hold and then he used that term presumptuous beliefs that countered the foundation
Of their existing cultures and beliefs so there's some arrogance involved that we have people that aren't even listening to the counter arguments
I think we have to be careful
not to abandon
The structures of the past in some kind of a race to move to the future because the future it hasn't been tested
By thousands and thousands of years of human evolution and I understand
That we
I'm not saying we don't progress
If I'm not saying we don't evolve but I'm saying you don't bow down and you don't submit
You got to think about the direction that we're heading and as citizens as people we have to have the courage to stand up before we reach the event horizon from which there's no return
So now on a smaller level
Lessons from this book as a as a person in business or in the military or in any team as a subordinate
And we're all subordinate to someone
We have to question our leaders and and I say that all the time
If we don't agree with a plan or don't agree with a tactic you got a question your leadership and you got to
Raise your hand, but if we know that the intent of our leadership is malevolent
Or it's gonna cause suffering human suffering on a grand scale or on a minor scale
You have to
We have to say no and do what is right no matter the consequence
No matter the consequence
And
You know finally
For us as
Individuals
We gotta remember that we are in charge of our own lives
We are leading our own lives and where are you leading yourself
What are you doing that you know you shouldn't be doing why are you doing that?
What catastrophe are you heading toward?
You don't have to be heading towards that catastrophe you have the opportunity to prevent catastrophe in your own life
But in order to do that once again you have to stand up you have to do the right thing
You have to be uncomfortable
You have to impose the discipline on your own life
So you don't have something else imposed something bad in post so you don't have a catastrophe imposed on your own life
Because when we avoid the discomfort and when we avoid the discipline and when we avoid
Doing what we know is the right thing to do that's when you end up in a personal catastrophe in your own personal hell in your own personal
Stalin grud
You have to do
The hard thing the thing you know is right and
And you know what is right and you know what you are supposed to do
So do it and
Avoid going down a path
That leads
To your own personal hell
And instead
Get on the path that leads
To freedom
And I think
That's all I've got for tonight's so echo speaking of doing the right thing sure
Maybe you could give us some ideas
on how
We can you know continue down the right path doing what we know we're supposed to do
Sure
The part where you said you know you're less likely to raise any questions or you're more likely to turn a blind eye
When you're winning
Remember you said that
Like on the one year see boiler room
I mean, no, no, you're right
You see that weather yeah, so the guys there's a part where he's in that they're waiting to go to a party
Something you know they're they're selling stocks right and they're like garbage stocks or whatever inflating them
Yeah, they're like yeah, there's some so pump a dump
Yeah, and so they're in the car
Going to some party and he's like hey, it was what's it Giovanni group that whatever that
Disney's name's there. He's like hey, do you ever wonder how how we get these big commissions on these you know
So I mean he's like that's the wrong question to ask you know he's like wait what do you mean he's like
He's like just just don't ask that question basics. He said don't ask that question
It was don't you like the way things are going
He's like yeah, but I do I do but don't you ever wonder he's like no I like being a millionaire same exact thing when you're winning
It's easy to turn the blind eye
Good point yeah, man, so I mean I guess that can apply
Well, yeah, you know it's it's interesting that you point that out and I think that
Um like on a personal level, right? Let's say you're doing really good
Yeah, it's then it can be tricky for people to do the right thing. Yeah, too because that's why we see like these
Celebrity like movie stars or celebrity athletes or whatever
Man, they do some dumb stuff right they do some dumps like they're winning
They're thinking they're good. They're good. They do whatever they want yeah, they make their wrong choice
Yeah, even they're on the evening news doing dumb stuff that ruins them yeah
And then their own personal style grud. Yeah, yeah, yeah, even yeah with money too, you know, you know like and celebrity types and you know
Athlete who even just people people
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, they're business blows up or whatever
Yeah, I guess any any any type of winning we could look at yeah
It doesn't mean you're necessarily doing the right thing
Yeah, it's harder my point is and I think you're saying the same thing
Yes, it can be harder. Yeah
Did do the right thing when you're winning because you just think you're yeah
Good to go you get arrogant. Yeah. Yeah. Let's not let's not put breaks on this training here
Just let it all fly kind of thing
Yeah, and then when the train kind of loses momentum mean while all those those things that you've been ignoring they're still there
Hey, you know, look at your empty bank account
You spent all that money you're supposed to keep before you made budget you know our money you were budgeting
Right you're budgeting you're surviving your budgeting you're doing the sort of making all this money started spanning all this money
Well the money stopped coming in your budget
God
See that's what happens sometimes you can't happen. Yeah
Also pain now or pay later. I remember that one. That was a good one that you said
Yeah, did I say that yeah paying now or pay later? We're I think we're talking about like working out or something
Oh, yeah, I was like I didn't say today though. No, no, no, no, no, yeah
Yeah, pay now or pay later for sure stuff with me
nonetheless support yeah for sure 100%
good way to
Avoid going down your personal and I don't know maybe does maybe doesn't nonetheless have you in the mood to support you don't have
In your own personal style and rock yeah, right, but I don't know why
Supporting would like prevent that you know, yeah, no, no, we got preaching pretty deep for
But nonetheless, you don't know you don't have any a version to reach a date
You're reaching deep today. This one is too much style and grog training day
No, no, those were conceptually they were the same thing they were I know the compare it's you know
Most of these world most of these like lessons I think I feel like they're kind of everywhere
Yeah, of course, and you know you talk about these heavy wars and heavy like events and then you know in my mind
I'm thinking training
You know what the you know the idea still hates the same there's I think there's people out there
In various states of mind sure and I think that you know your perspective helps them maybe get
Maybe see some of them saying because maybe I'm I'm heading them from the wrong angle so yeah, you're coming in from training day
Movies and yeah, actually and then come to think about it these concepts right here today when you're saying you know
You know when it's going to take for example when it's going good it's easy to turn the blind
Isn't that kind of a lot of movies how it is it's like the guy does real good and he's just kind of going and
He messes up in one way or another
Yeah, I think there's a talk by Kurt Vonnegut and I've seen you on YouTube
I think it's Kurt Vonnegut. He's a teaching a class
You know Kurt Vonnegut is yeah
He's teaching some class like he just guessed teaching in some class pretty awesome, but he's talking about like there's four
Plot lines and they're all pretty much this. Yeah, yeah, it's pretty cool
But that's one of your you have nothing and then you get everything yeah
I think I abuse it kind of there's then there's you have nothing you get everything you lose everything and then you get everything back
He's just got these it's like I forget them all, but yeah, yeah, they're common
Common story line yeah, they must be kind of I mean they must be right based on real life like like
Term like scenarios that you go through well, I think it's why it's like come back story. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
Your dog store under dog. Yeah, triumphant. Yeah, that's all
On the last of year in the mood to support
And you know between your movie watching Escapades
Is that the correct word escapades? Yeah, yeah, I don't recommend it. I recommend you read
You know whatever train day maybe we'll get you there
That's a good I thought anyway nonetheless
Origin made isn't it weird that like training day is this movie that call how much the cost to make training day?
I don't know 50 million dollars and like you can go to the library and get stolen by the book
For nothing literally nothing. Yeah, or you can buy it
You can buy it on Amazon for I think this book costs like a dollar because it's used
But it's just kind of a strange dichotomy there. It's interesting for sure and you know
Obviously we can go into why which one is better for you?
I'm gonna go ahead and say that's telling me what's better for you than training day. Oh
It depends on what you get out of it, you know, you know, I like I mean
That's actually people would ask me how do you read to get the most out of it?
Out of a book. How do you? Well, I read it while I'm reading it. I lied it. Oh, yeah
Jordan B. Peterson. I was watching something that you had to say don't highlight anything
Yeah, this is the this I have a major disagreement with Jordan B. Peterson. I'm not highlighting full
But
Anyway, so I go through I highlight what hits me and then I go back and reread it and then I have the red pen to circle the important really
That's what I do to on the Kindle it you can choose your
Your color of highlighter. So the yellow is general highlighting and then the orange. Yeah, that's not it
Nonetheless, all right. Well, how about this we'll talk about some jujitsu geese
Because people asked me yeah
What geese should I get you get origin geese? That's it. In America from the threats from the cotton
As always say as we all know
Being a mayor to the shirt dirt to the shirt. Have you said that field to finish? No, I just was up there
I was just up at the factory with Pete. Oh, yeah, I caught the Facebook like I don't know my head
I'm a my dirt to this show is that to you right?
I think it might be just like yeah
To shirt might be field to finish hands in daylight hands in daylight
But yeah, it makes some good stuff especially geese in America like I said
good
In jujitsu, you know, I have a few geese
If you geese, I don't need use any of them except the origin ones. Go to originmain.com
That's where you can get your geese for jujitsu. They also have rash cards compression gear right and that's for jujitsu
I think
primarily
But you can use it for other stuff of course. Yeah, indeed big tent also
Jocquoise some supplements good supplements. Oh, I was talking to
Kids names Josh
From Virginia Tech at training. It's a couple of times there and I think it was here for you a few weeks
It would have been training and you know, so we talk about somebody's young is 21 and he's like oh, yeah
I take fish oil. I was like dang. That's good. I'm a crew oil's better than the fish oil
I know this because my I told you I already my post
Dad told me all the benefits about nonetheless, but he's taking joint supplements at 21
He said no, I don't have problems with my joints, but I just want to maintain this joint
situation as I get older. I was like, oh, you're way ahead of me, so I give him some of your
Joint warfare. Yeah, that's good
Pete
Pete from origin he he needs
Joint warfare he can feel it dissipate in the day and like when I was with with with him
He'd be you know at
Five o'clock in the afternoon he's looking back at it. I hold on. Be right back and take some joy of warfare
So he's that like he's at the threshold. Yeah, he's like that kind of he's it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's uh
Yeah, and that's actually it's interesting because you know you can see
What's selling and what's cool is you can see during warfare
Crilloil like what's awesome about is it to repeat customers of people that order it
Yeah, then they order it again and then they order it again. Yeah, because you don't order it if you're not feeling it
Yeah, that's what I'm that's how I am with the krilloil yeah
100% like if you like offer get and I'll be like you know like oh, I'll take it later
I don't forget and yeah, you know
You're just you have don't you have a morning routine
I don't whatever and that's the thing that's the thing doesn't include just wake up boom boom
For me medicine cabinet opened my all my stuff is right there. No, and not to go to deep to deep into my routine
But during the week it's you know wake up and then there's like my daughters for and half
She has school so there's that situation going on this is not this does not
In your fear with you getting up and taking some pills for before you brush your teeth kind of not see
That's the thing the routine doesn't allow for me to take them before I've actually it's part
It's the routine it's the routine for the other team because for me after you got it you got it
You got to take the pills before you brush your teeth because when you brush your teeth you got the strong
Men in there that makes the water like too cold in your teeth. Yes, and I like that. I think it's more refreshing
I don't see
Maybe I need to harden up a little bit
Maybe
Yeah, probably none the last sometimes I forget
three four and you if you forget for like four days and you're still working out of whatever you'll feel it
I will feel it so same thing krillo. I need it
Yeah, I had life actually
Actually Jenna Jenna brought me krill oil in oh you're gonna
For god, I know like bro that's okay, and I want to ask for it
Level seven panic I forgot my krill oil bring me some yeah, like you know
I don't want to do that but probably it was important yeah, level seven panic mode
No, no, that's krill oil back to krill jocquoise krill oil super krill oil is a super it's super krill
It's not normal krill super and there's many reasons for that you can find out on the website or
Domain.com if you want to know those exact
Resents also join warfare that's for your joints maintain your body structure while you're working out good golf because it does
Disappeate I don't want to use word dissipate, but what do you call degenerate degenerate? Sure after time when you when you go hard in the pain
It does
Unless like I said they got compression gear geese rush guards all the stuff hoodies
Which may or may not be the most comfortable hoodies and pants by the way the sweatpants joggers apparently joggers
Yeah, so the other day I'm like okay I'm exporting some special effect that I did so I'm like shoot when when you export it's like
You can't really use that program, you know you can express me it's a long story, but so I'm like okay
I'm off my computer for you know it's gonna take like 10 minutes a big effect
So I got land the couch and have the whole origin
Outfit on for whatever reason just kind of happened to I land the couch and I'm like dang
I don't think I felt this comfortable in a long time
But it was everything and let's come that's that's pretty bold
Stay there because you are a long experience level of comfort come. I mean comfort seeker
Yes, 100% and I evaluate
You evaluate various comfort levels. Yeah, this is high
There will been one of the highest I get it. It was everything. It was a couch. It was the time of day
It was the fact that I didn't really care around
You know that I lived with one of my
Seal buddies for many years. We were kind of just just just young dumb
From man we had this yellow couch that was like 14 feet long
You did it was just kind of dull. It was like
Maybe five feet deep
It was like a bed no realistically it was like five feet deep
What's one of you through the back curtains off it was five feet deep and it was probably 12
12 feet long and where was this in your apartment? Yeah, it was gold
It was the old felt
But we got it from some
Shop yeah, that's the can you have in like a lounge we did something all ours for
We had one like that at UH in the in the football lounge. Yeah, it was like it wasn't most
God, you know that couch you were looking at tomato my house. You're like, that's a nice couch
This thing that couch out there all nice
Doesn't even come close to the comfort of the old gold couch yet. I think it was the deal
yet weird how like
Ugly like couches will be the most functionally comfortable
We had this one my wife forst us to give away and
Cuz it was outside it got phased out slowly
You know how you get a new couch and you're like okay, what do we do there?
Well, I'm not gonna give it away because it's too comfortable
We've had it for so long and it's like in good shape. Oh, and then we get another couch for the you know for the side there
Oh, we know we do this so it ends up outside
You know anyone's gonna be a couch outside. It's like it's kind of you know
Doesn't doesn't look good blah blah blah
Give it away, but it was the most comfortable couch. I think we actually know the new one
Nonetheless
Back to origin go to origin main dot com. That's it. That's where you get it and you can get the discipline there, too
Yeah, yeah, yeah the discipline big done the pre workout the pre mission the pre mission yeah
Since it it to me I take it before I work out see I don't I take it before I do jitsu
Yeah, I take it before I have to do a podcast or take it before I have to do
Like an look I speak in event where I need to do my brain has to be firing
Yeah, yeah, could you think it before bed? I mean I know it has a little bit caffeine but like I have and
I think you can I don't think I'd strongly recommend it especially if you're caffeine sensitive like I
Yeah, but you drink your nine monster energy drinks a day you can drink whatever you want from
Jocco White tea because there's a lot left caffeine well that you figure the distance
She saw a lot of people you know a lot of people hit me if you used jocco white tea to ween off of full strength coffee. Yeah
Yeah, yeah, yeah, because they don't want to be on that coffee, but there's enough
Can I feel a little something to ween off? It's like methadone
Get an off heroin
So you might want to try that you know the jocco white and you want to have coffee breath anymore. Yeah, because no one likes that
Yeah, it's really not like methadone, but
Since the the pre workout pre mission has a cognitive enhancers you figure you know when you sleep
That's like the best part of your brain or go for the best time for your brain to recover
Maybe that's a little something. I don't recommend it cuz like I said, but you never know could be could be something
I wouldn't drink it before I go to bed. Maybe when you wake up
Yeah, but I don't drink when I wake up. I'll drink because I don't drink it for I don't drink any kind of pre workout for
Before I work out before I lift weights before I do a metcon
I don't yeah, yeah, I should I don't know and you know you should I mean
One of the reasons because I don't like everything. I think my stomach when I'm working out
Yeah, but those pre workouts is like yeah, I know there's like really anything
No, it's just like doing water. Yeah, yeah, I'll maybe I'll try it. Yeah, yeah
Tell me report back, please. Okay. We'll do yesterday also
Speak to work you know
I get my kettlebells from on it on it comes last drop. Let's read get them kettlebells the
Designer way you don't have to get the designer ones. I know I always see the designer ones get the designer ones and I'm still saying it
Well big time
So you don't have to like I don't want to get the number ones, but nonetheless on it
They have other cool workout stuff you want your workout to be creative
Telling you like you know the you know the mace right? Yeah one of those I have I do yeah
You've done like a workout with a mace. Yeah, yeah
I incorporate them my name for I've got two mace exercises
One of them is called like I have notes in my notebook on what my workout sure and I have like barbarian smash
That's the word no, no, no, that's the movement of the movement
Okay, I think you made up them and then one's like a battle act swing sure so yeah, yeah
You can do this with the mace. Yeah, and the mace is heavy though
Well, like the various is 20 pounds. Yeah, that's heavy. Oh, yeah, do you have you 20 pounds? That's you
How much base ball bat way?
I don't know
I don't know a couple pounds. Yeah, and then you can put his all 16 ounce weight the other day for the end of your bat when you're getting warmed up
A mace is 20 pounds. Yes, it's really heavy and the to me very careful actually
Yeah big time because you don't drop that back that much weight on a on a mace with that weird because the 20-pond dumbbell
You think out that's a 20 but that's not even part of the workout
I don't warm up with 20 pounds in any exercise kind of attitude and then you're like so do it
So light then you pick up that mace and you're like this is like the heavy stick I've ever been to hell before sure
Yeah, and stick for
Nonetheless, so you get them as well as stuff too. It's really cool so go on a dot com slash jacco and check it out get something also
Subscribe to the podcast iTunes Google play stature
Anywhere there where they broadcast podcast broadcast podcast
Yeah
Spotify too confirmed boom
Do it also YouTube if you want the video version of this podcast
If you want to see what jacco looks like
You know you're into that kind of stuff look on YouTube also have excerpts on there actually
Someone emailed me and said just for the excerpts it. Hey, thanks for putting excerpts on there. That's pretty cool
That is pretty cool to be like yeah, just a this is cool
So obviously it's a good thing there are excerpts on there. That's a good thing you because sometimes the podcast goes a little long
Yeah, it's especially this section
No, I think you're two hours of reading
Not the last YouTube some value there. I think if you know you watch with certain people they play putting
I'm under your tier lives some point. Yeah on our on the YouTube channel
Yeah, there you will cool even more value send you an alert right? I think if you're subscribed
Yeah, if you allow the alert and you're subscribed
Yeah, it's good. That last YouTube good way to support also
Jacco as a store it's called jacco store
Jacco store.com
That's where you can get all the cool shirts. They're cool. I think they're cool
All the shirts discipline equals for you
Get after it
There's even the shirt that jacco wears every single day in his life
The victim and make sure it's available. You can get it you can get it
Also rash cards on there some cool stuff women stuff on there hoodies patches hats
You know what I'm gonna make this commitment right now. I'm gonna put something new every single
What you're not
Like cause I committed I don't know every month I'll put something new can people have a mail you to tell you what they want
No actually yes actually I like that or
Email email email through the store or Twitter or whatever the P. Yeah, we do everyone does for sure
A lot of stuff is suggestions actually a lot of stuff already on there. Yeah exactly right heavy or duty sweatshirts
hats
You know they're on the way. Yes, but yeah, they're in the pipe for sure 100% yeah, that's a suggestion
Yeah, these are all
People
Suggestions from the field. Yeah, so yeah, it takes suggestions big time
I kind of I pull the trigger on the ones that have the most suggestions so sometimes I understand you know
If you're like hey, I made a suggestion and I still have a feeling I
Don't dress you know you're in the field too and I did it, but if you're the only one side about sorry
You got no pull over here. Yeah, yeah, you got a little pull not that much though nonetheless anyway jockelstar dot com. That's a place
Also psychological worker
If you know what that is here's what it is. It's an album that you can buy an iTunes
Amazon music
Google play anywhere where you can buy MP3 downloads. It's an album that you can buy
With tracks jockel tracks and this is what it's for. It's not music. It's not jockel singing or playing guitar
What else do you play?
You go lately now. Yeah, you can lay it right that you yeah, you can care so jockeys don't play that
He's he's speaking to you pragmatic. He's given us us pragmatic advice on
Why or how I would say how to overcome certain points of weakness in our campaigns
Against weakness. That's what it is
So you know you want to skip the workout you want to cheat on the diet or isn't your compelled to one day because you're you're feeling not an old tired
If you run into little
Speed bumps your campaign listen to this to the track for everything trust me. Just look at it
What if instead of somebody wanting to
Watch training day they want to read one of these books
Where could they get them and what's the best way to shop for them while supporting this podcast glad you ask I got the
Solution right now. This is what I did if you didn't know already
Here's what I did go to jockel podcast.com jockel podcast.com not the store podcast website
Organized all the books by episode in section
Books from the podcast click through there actually that's a good way to support to take it Amazon
Amazon Prime get the book in like two days boom and it supports the podcast big time
Good way for things whatever you like man long lawn mower's duct tape
What else rubber ducts if you have kids you know else you can get on Amazon dot com as you can get jockel
white tea
When you get it also order yourself
Some new weights because upon drinking jockel white tea you will be able to
Deadlift 8000 pounds
Certified you know you got some new weight didn't yeah, I did all right we'll leave that that's all good
It happens
You can also get some books some books from
You know that that I've kind of put together one of them is called way the warrior kid
That book teaches kids to do the right things
In their lives study read work out eat clean help others work hard
Get tons of feedback on that book because it helps kids
They relate to it
Speaking of related to it. There's a little warrior kid out there 12 years old the name is Aiden
He reached out to me
I wanted he makes soap from goat milk. Do you hear the story? Yes makes
So any of the whole story. Okay. He makes soap from goat milk. You know why he makes soap from goat milk?
You can't do anything with goat milk and California. You can't sell it to someone because it's not edible or whatever
They have laws right place right the rags are placed what do you do with goat milk then?
He didn't want to do with it. Then he figured out I'll make soap and then he wanted to make good to soap
And so he said hey can I make some jocquist soap and I was like yeah, dude you're 12 years old get after it and he did
I wish Oaks ranch.com
You can order yourself you can order yours. Oh, it's on the link on the website
Yeah from age so you can support a young or your kid 12 years old business owner
So legit
Discellenicals freedom field manual that's also about getting stronger smarter faster healthier and better
The audio version of that is not on audible
It's on iTunes Amazon music Google play. It's an album with tracks by the way
Actually, it's two albums with tracks
On top of that we got extreme ownership the book written by myself and my brother, Dave Babin
It's about combat leadership that's what it's about and
If you want to learn how to lead you can check out that book
Also if your business team or your organization needs a little extra help
You can utilize our leadership consulting company called echelon front
You're a lot of talk tonight about the rear echelon
That's why we named echelon front echelon front the rear echelon with people in the rear
echelon the front echelons the people in the front lines, and that's why we named the organization
echelon front because there's a lot of people that talk about leadership
But they're talking about it from the rear echelon from the back
We're talking about it from the front our experiences on the front lines
We solve problems
Whatever problems through leadership so that's our company echelon front to me
Wavebab and JPED and L. Dave Burke you can email info at echelon front dot com or the website you can check it out if you want to and finally if you haven't heard yet the mustard
Washington DC
May 17th and 18th
San Francisco October 17th and 18th we've had four of them in the past two years actually like the last two year to have they all sold out
This one's gonna sell out to
it is
a
Leadership conference where we drill down on how to lead
We give leadership tools tactics strategies
That will allow you to lead and win echelon front
That's our
event
You can register for it
Extremeownership dot com and
If you want to continue to talking with us or you have questions or if you have answers
If you want to tell me a mistake that I made in the podcast tonight, which I'm sure I did
Or you have comments you want to make as to what we do here you can find us on the interwebs
on Twitter on Instagram and
On the face you boha echo is echo Charles and i am at jocco willink and
And finally thank you for listening to the show. Thank you for supporting the show. Thank you for spreading the word
Thanks to those of you that make this podcast possible
The men and women of our armed services that protect
Our freedom and especially in this case are right to free speech to the police firefighters,
Paramedics and other first responders that are out there every day keeping us safe. Thank you
And everyone else that is listening
Thank you for standing up and leading yourself
Leaving yourself away from weakness and toward strength
Away from laziness and toward action
Away from comfort and towards the discipline
Away from
catastrophe
and toward victory
Keep leading and keep getting after it
And until next time this is echo and jocco out